---

title: Software development tool that provides context-based data schema code hinting
abstract: A software application development tool provides context-based data schema code hinting. Code “regions” are defined in the code for an application that is under development. One or more data sources that are referenced by a code region may be defined. The development tool detects when a designer is attempting to reference a data schema, such as by detecting that the designer has input a specified trigger, within a region of the code, and in response, the development tool provides code hints for the data schema for corresponding data source(s) that is/are referenced in the corresponding code region in which the designer is working. Thus, rather than providing data schema code hinting for all data sources referenced by the application, targeted code hinting is employed by presenting data schema code hints for only the data source(s) that are referenced by a defined code region in which the designer is working.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09311059&OS=09311059&RS=09311059
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 09311059
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070410
---
The following description relates generally to software development tools and more specifically to a software development tool for markup language coding that provides context based data schema code hinting based for example on a defined region of the code in which a developer is working.

Many software development tools are available today for use by software designers or developers in creating various types of software applications. Software designers and developers are used interchangeably herein and generally refer to anyone involved with using a software development tool for authoring designing or otherwise creating or modifying a software application. In a software development environment a developer may interact with a software development tool for writing code compiling the code testing or debugging the code and packaging the resulting application for deployment in a run time environment. The software development tool may be implemented as a software application that is stored to a computer readable medium and executed by a computer processor to perform the tasks associated with aiding a developer in the development of a software application. As one example an integrated development environment IDE is commonly used for developing software applications. In general an IDE is a programming environment that has been packaged as a software application program typically including a code editor a compiler a debugger and a graphical user interface GUI builder. The IDE may be a stand alone application or may be included as part of one or more existing and compatible applications. IDEs provide a user friendly framework for many modern programming languages such as Visual Basic Java and PowerBuilder. IDEs for developing markup language e.g. HTML XML etc. applications are among the most commonly used.

Thus IDEs provide software tools that allow a developer e.g. a web developer to create web pages websites interactive applications and the like for use by end users e.g. visitors to websites . Various IDEs exist in the current marketplace such as DREAMWEAVER available from Adobe Systems Incorporated and FRONTPAGE available from Microsoft Corporation. DREAMWEAVER is an IDE that allows web developers to design Hypertext Markup Language HTML web pages in both a code editor and a graphical based design time environment. DREAMWEAVER also allows the developer to design in other markup languages such as for example Extensible Markup Language XML Extensible HTML XHTML Active Server Page ASP COLDFUSION Markup Language CFML and the like.

An IDE may allow a developer to create a document in an environment that includes both a text based code view and a graphical based design view. The code view renders the source code e.g. markup language code as text in a portion of the screen and allows the developer to see and manipulate the source code in the document file. For example the developer may write and edit HTML or Cascading Style Sheets CSS code in the code view. The design view on the other hand is a What You See Is What You Get WYSIWYG view of the document that allows the user to visually manipulate the interpreted and graphically laid out version of the document such as for example by dragging dropping cutting and pasting visual components. As the developer works changes to the document are reflected in both the code view and the design view.

One popular web development technique that may be employed by a developer when working with a development tool for developing a web page is known as AJAX. AJAX shorthand for Asynchronous JavaScript and XML which is a well known web development technique for creating interactive web applications that process user requests immediately. AJAX combines several programming tools including JavaScript dynamic HTML DHTML Extensible Markup Language XML cascading style sheets CSS the Document Object Model DOM and the Microsoft object XMLHttpRequest. In general AJAX permits web pages to be created such that regions of the page may be updated without requiring a full page refresh. AJAX allows content on web pages to update immediately when a user performs an action unlike an HTTP request during which users must wait for a whole new page to load. For example a weather forecasting site could display local conditions on one side of the page without delay after a user types in a zip code.

Web pages unlike native applications are loosely coupled meaning that the data they display are not tightly bound to data sources and must be first marshalled set out in proper order into an HTML page format before they can be presented on a client machine. For this reason web pages traditionally had to be re loaded each time a user was to view different datasets e.g. as the data being presented on the web page changed . By using the XmlHttpRequest object to request and return data without a re load a programmer by passes this requirement and makes the loosely coupled web page behave much like a tightly coupled application but with a more variable lag time for the data to pass through a longer wire to the remote web browser.

Thus using AJAX a developer can bind data on the client browser and update certain regions of a web page without incurring a full page refresh. Each region of the web page that can individually be updated without refreshing the full page may be specified in the web page s underlying markup language code using tags such as the tag. The intent is to make web pages feel more responsive by exchanging small amounts of data with the server behind the scenes so that the entire web page does not have to be reloaded each time the user requests a change. This is meant to increase the web page s interactivity speed and usability.

Software development tools such as IDEs commonly provide various features to help a developer in developing a software application such as a web page. For instance software development tools often provide code hinting. Code hinting is a help feature that is used by many software development tools in a code view editing mode. In general the development tool monitors the developer s input and attempts to recognize anticipate code that the developer desires to input and provides hints as to the code that the development tool believes the developer desires such that the developer can quickly select the hinted code if it is what the developer desires thereby alleviating the developer from having to fully type the hinted code. As one example as the developer types code the development tool may present a pop up box near the insertion point that lists possible code elements such as code commands components data schemas application programming interface API methods etc. associated with the input typed by the developer. The developer may then scroll through the list and pick the specific element e.g. component tag data schema command method or the like from the displayed list instead of typing the desired information to completion. Again as the developer makes the particular selection the application development environment inserts the selected code and or visual rendering thereof in the corresponding section of the code being edited.

While code hinting can be helpful to a developer and its use generally encourages accuracy in coding e.g. by reducing typos and other human errors the inventor of the present application has recognized that often such code hinting presents too many choices to a developer thus reducing the code hinting feature s usability. For instance a code hinting pop up box may present a long list of choices to a developer thus requiring the developer to scroll through the long list to find the desired code element to insert. If the list is too long the developer may be discouraged from searching through it and may elect instead to manually type the desired code and thus the potential benefits of providing code hinting may go unrecognized. The undesirably long lists in code hinting often arise because development tools have traditionally failed to consider the context in which the developer is working when presenting a code hint. For instance upon recognizing that a developer is attempting to code a reference to a data schema traditional development tools may present data schema hints for all data sources referenced in the application tinder development rather than considering the context in which the developer is currently working such as a given region of the code in which the developer is typing. Accordingly a desire exists for a software development tool such as an IDE that improves the usability of code hinting.

The present invention is directed to systems and methods in which a software application development tool e.g. DREAMWEAVER etc. provides context based data schema code hinting. In certain embodiments code regions are defined in the code e.g. mark up language code for a software application that is under development. A software application designer s context may thus be determined based at least in part on which code region the designer is working. Such code regions may be defined via tags within the code such as a tag for example. Further one or more data sources that are referenced by a defined code region may be defined. For example in certain embodiments the tag is used for defining a code region and such tag may include an attribute that specifies one or more data sources referenced by the region. As an example a designer may define a code section as follows wherein this tag defines a code section named products which is specified as referencing or being attached bound to a data source dsFoo .

According to embodiments of the present invention the software development tool is operable to provide code hints as to data schemas that are applicable to a given region within which the designer is working. In certain embodiments the software development tool is operable to detect when a designer is attempting to reference a data schema such as by detecting that the designer has input a specified trigger such as the character which is a character that indicates that the information that follows is a reference to a data schema within a region of the code. In response to such detection the development tool can automatically provide code hints for the data schema for corresponding data source s that is are referenced in the corresponding code region in which the designer is working. For instance the development tool may present a pop up window that contains a list of data schema code hints for the corresponding data source s that is are referenced in the corresponding code region in which the trigger is detected and the designer may select a desired data schema code to be inserted at the location of the detected trigger in the code.

For example within the above mentioned products code region the software development tool may provide code hinting for the data schemas for only the referenced data source dsFoo. Thus rather than providing code hinting as to data schemas for all data sources that may be referenced by the application under development targeted code hinting may be employed by presenting code hints for the data schemas for only the data source s that are referenced by a defined code region in which the designer is working. In this manner the code hinting may be more user friendly which may encourage the use of such code hinting by the designer thus leading to more efficient and error free coding.

The foregoing has outlined rather broadly the features and technical advantages of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the invention that follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the invention will be described hereinafter which form the subject of the claims of the invention. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the conception and specific embodiment disclosed may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other structures for carrying out the same purposes of the present invention. It should also be realized by those skilled in the art that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The novel features which are believed to be characteristic of the invention both as to its organization and method of operation together with further objects and advantages will be better understood from the following description when considered in connection with the accompanying figures. It is to be expressly understood however that each of the figures is provided for the purpose of illustration and description only and is not intended as a definition of the limits of the present invention.

In this example the software application that is under development may have its code divided into a plurality of defined regions such as code region and code region shown in . The regions may be defined in any suitable way. For instance as discussed further below in certain embodiments tags or other designators may be used in the code for defining the regions. For example the tag is commonly used in AJAX for defining regions of the code. Such tag and or other block level element tags such as etc. may be used for defining regions within the code according to one embodiment. For each region one or more data sources are defined as being referenced by such region. For instance a definition of the data source s referenced by code region is included and a definition of the data source s referenced by code region is included. In certain embodiments as discussed further below such definitions and are made as an attribute of their respective region. For instance region may be defined as wherein the tag specifies that a new region is being defined within the code the id attribute of the tag specifies that the region is identified by the name products and the spry region attribute of the tag specifies that the data source A is defined as being referenced by region . Thus in certain embodiments the definition specifies which data sources are bound to region and definition specifies which data sources are bound to region .

Development tool is operable to monitor the designer s input to the code of application and recognize input that indicates that the designer is attempting to input code referencing a data schema and in response to such recognition the development tool presents code hinting to aid the designer as to the code for referencing a data schema. For example in response to recognizing designer inputting a trigger within region wherein trigger may be any input to the code that indicates the designer is desiring to input code referencing a data schema the development tool presents code hinting . Similarly in response to recognizing designer inputting a trigger within region wherein trigger may be any input to the code that indicates the designer is desiring to input code referencing a data schema the development tool presents code hinting . Triggers and may be for example a character or other character that when input to the code by the designer indicates that the designer is attempting to code a reference to a data schema.

As is well known in the art a data schema that is defined for a data source generally describes the data types etc. that are defined for the corresponding data source. For instance a data source dsFoo may possess certain data types elements such as certain fields of a database. This is similar to the concept of various fields being defined for records of a database such as employee name employee address employee telephone number etc. defined for each record in an employee database. Thus the schema for dsFoo may include such data elements as descheader desc features ds RowID . ds CurrentRowID etc. and each of these data elements may be referenced in the mark up language code for accessing a corresponding part of the data residing in data source dsFoo . In the example shown in data schemas are defined for data source s A and data schemas are defined for data source s B wherein software development tool is capable of accessing such data schema definitions and .

According to embodiments of the present invention the development tool provides context based data schema code hinting thus making the code hinting easier to use by for instance alleviating undesired data schema code references from the hinting. For instance in the exemplary embodiment of the development tool determines which of regions and designer is working and in response to detecting a trigger within the determined code region the development tool presents code hinting that includes data schemas for only the referenced data source s defined such region. For example as illustrated in code region contains definition that specifies that such region references data source s A while code region contains definition that specifies that such region references data source s B. Thus in response to detecting trigger within region development tool presents code hinting that includes data schemas for only the referenced data source s A defined for region . Similarly in response to detecting trigger within region development tool presents code hinting that includes data schemas for only the referenced data source s B defined for region .

In operational block the software development tool detects a user s e.g. designer s input indicating that the user is attempting to code in one of the plurality of regions a reference to a data schema. For instance in the example of software development tool detects the trigger in region . In response to detecting such user input in block the software development tool in operational block presents a code hint that includes data schema code hints for only the determined one or more data sources referenced by the corresponding region in which the user is attempting to code the reference to the data schema. For instance in the example of in response to detecting trigger in region software development tool presents code hinting that includes data schema code hints for only data source s A that are defined in definition as being referenced by region .

In block the software development tool determines one or more data sources referenced by the defined region. In certain embodiments the software development tool may so determine the data sources referenced by a defined region based on attributes specified for the defined region such as in operational block . For instance in a definition may be included as an attribute of a tag defining code region wherein such attribute specifies one or more data sources that are referenced by the region e.g. data source s A in the example of .

In response to anticipating in block that the user desires to code a reference to a data schema in the defined code region the software development tool presents in block a code hint that contains one or more data schemas of only the determined one or more data sources referenced by the defined code region wherein the one or more data schemas presented are available for selection by the user for insertion in the code. For instance in the example of in response to detecting trigger in region software development tool presents code hinting that includes data schema code hints for only data source s A that are defined in definition as being referenced by region wherein the user can select any of the presented data schema code hints for insertion into the code region e.g. at the location of the code immediately following the detected trigger .

Certain embodiments of the present invention are implemented employing the well known Spry framework for AJAX. The Spry framework for AJAX is a JavaScript library for web designers that provides functionality that allows designers to build pages that provide a richer experience for their users. It is designed to bring AJAX to the web design community who can benefit from AJAX but are not well served by other frameworks. The Spry framework is a way to use the data capabilities that enable designers to incorporate XML data into their HTML documents using HTML CSS and a minimal amount of JavaScript without the need for refreshing the entire page. The Spry framework is HTML centric and easy to implement for users with basic knowledge of HTML CSS and JavaScript. The framework was designed such that the markup is simple and the JavaScript is minimal. The Spry framework can be used by anyone who is authoring for the web in their tool of choice.

Continuing with the example of when designer inputs trigger which in this example is the character software development tool detects that the designer is attempting to input code referencing a data schema and thus software development tool presents code hinting pop up window . Software development tool determines from the attribute that the defined products region references the dsFoo data source and thus software development tool presents data schema code hints for only the referenced dsFoo data source in the code hinting pop up window . This advantageously alleviates the designer from having to search through data schemas of other data sources that are not referenced in the products region in order to find a desired data schema code in the code hinting pop up window . Once the designer finds a data schema code for dsFoo in code hinting pop up window that the designer desires to insert at the location of trigger e.g. immediately following trigger the designer can select such desired data schema code in the code hinting pop up window e.g. by clicking on the desired data schema code with a pointing device such as a mouse and software development tool inserts the selected data schema code into the code at the location of trigger .

Continuing with the example of when designer inputs trigger which in this example is the character software development tool detects that the designer is attempting to input code referencing a data schema and thus software development tool presents code hinting pop up window . Software development tool determines from the attribute that the defined products region references the dsFoo and dsBar data sources and thus software development tool presents data schema code hints for only these two referenced data sources in the code hinting pop up window . That is data schema code hints for data source dsFoo are presented in code hinting pop up window and data schema code hints for data source dsBar are also presented in code hinting pop up window in this example. This advantageously alleviates the designer from having to search through data schemas of other data sources that are not referenced in the products region in order to find a desired data schema code in the code hinting pop up window . Once the designer finds a data schema code for dsFoo or dsBar in code hinting pop up window that the designer desires to insert at the location of trigger e.g. immediately following trigger the designer can select such desired data schema code in the code hinting pop up window e.g. by clicking on the desired data schema code with a pointing device such as a mouse and software development tool inserts the selected data schema code into the code at the location of trigger .

So provides an example of a region products being bound to two data sources dsFoo and dsBar . In certain embodiments order of priority may be defined for the data sources that are referenced by a given region. For instance the order in which the data sources are defined in the attribute may specify an order of priority of the data sources. In the illustrated example of the primary data source is dsFoo due to order of occurance in the attribute i.e. because dsFoo is listed first before the dsBar data source . As such dsFoo data schema codes are presented in code hinting pop up window without a prefix such that those data schema members of dsFoo can be referenced without a prefix identifying dsFoo whereas data schema codes for the secondary dsBar data source are presented in code hinting pop up window with a dsBar prefix i.e. dsBar prefix such that those data schema members of dsBar are referenced with the dsBar prefix.

In certain embodiments software development tool may reference a document object model DOM for the application that is under development to determine the appropriate data schemas to include in a presented code hinting. As is well known in the art a DOM generally refers to a platform and language independent standard object model for representing markup language HTML XML etc. format of a document such as application . According to certain embodiments based on the user s e.g. designer s current position in the code of application e.g. markup language page document the software development tool searches the DOM to determine the corresponding region in which the user is working. For instance from the user s current position in the application the software development tool searches up the application s DOM tree of nodes e.g. HTML nodes for the parent region with spry region spry detailregion attribute e.g. . . . html code . . . html code . When the user is near the and types the character the software development tool provides the list of column names tied to dsProductDetails only though other data sets can live on that page but are not setting used in the containing UI block. Thus the software development tool provides a more targeted and narrow list of column names available on the page for data binding based on containing block attributes and position of .

As illustrates in certain embodiments software development tool may access DOM of application to determine which of defined regions and designer is working at a given time. For instance in response to detecting trigger being input by designer within region development tool may access DOM to determine that trigger is located within defined region . Thus software development tool can determine e.g. from definition which may be an attribute of the region that data source s A are referenced by the region within which trigger is located and in response present only data schemas for such referenced data source s A in code hinting .

Similarly in response to detecting trigger being input by designer within region development tool may access DOM to determine that trigger is located within defined region . Thus software development tool can determine e.g. from definition which may be an attribute of the region that data source s B are referenced by the region within which trigger is located and in response present only data schemas for such referenced data source s B in code hinting .

Using AJAX a designer can bind data on the client browser and update certain regions of a web page without incurring a full page refresh. The regions may be defined using the tag in the markup code for the web page as is well known. According to embodiments of the present invention the region defining element e.g. the tag can include an attribute specifying referenced data source s for the region and based on such attached data source s the software development tool can narrow down the data schema code hinting list presented for the region to give more targeted code hinting to the designer . Traditionally the designer would typically have to remember the column schema names for the data set and type them by hand manually within the code for an application . The user would also have to ensure manually that he is typing the correct data reference based on which page regions are tied to which data sets. As discussed above according to embodiments of the present invention the software development tool can provide the designer with a more targeted data schema code hinting based on which page regions are bound to which data sources.

When implemented via computer executable instructions various elements of embodiments of the present invention are in essence the software code defining the operations of such various elements. The executable instructions or software code may be obtained from a readable medium e.g. a hard drive media optical media EPROM EEPROM tape media cartridge media flash memory ROM memory stick and or the like or communicated via a data signal from a communication medium e.g. the Internet . In fact readable media can include any medium that can store or transfer information.

Computer system also preferably includes random access memory RAM which may be SRAM DAM SDRAM or the like. Computer system preferably includes read only memory ROM which may be PROM EPROM BEPROM or the like. RAM and ROM hold user and system data and programs as is well known in the art.

Computer system also preferably includes input output I O adapter communications adapter user interface adapter and display adapter . I O adapter user interface adapter and or communications adapter may in certain embodiments enable a user to interact with computer system in order to input information such as authoring code for an application that is under development as described above.

I O adapter preferably connects to storage device s such as one or more of hard drive compact disc CD drive floppy disk drive tape drive etc. to computer system . The storage devices may be utilized when RAM is insufficient for the memory requirements associated with storing data for operations of the development tool . Communications adapter is preferably adapted to couple computer system to network which may enable information to be input to and or output from system via such network e.g. the Internet or other wide area network a local area network a public or private switched telephony network a wireless network any combination of the foregoing . User interface adapter couples user input devices such as keyboard pointing device and microphone and or output devices such as speaker s to computer system . Display adapter is driven by CPU to control the display on display device to for example display information pertaining to an application under development such as code view of code hinting pop up windows and of respectively and in some embodiments a graphical based design time view as examples.

It shall be appreciated that the present invention is not limited to the architecture of system . For example any suitable processor based device may be utilized for implementing development tool including without limitation personal computers laptop computers computer workstations and multi processor servers. Moreover embodiments of the present invention may be implemented on application specific integrated circuits ASICs or very large scale integrated VLSI circuits. In fact persons of ordinary skill in the art may utilize any number of suitable structures capable of executing logical operations according to the embodiments of the present invention.

Although the present invention and its advantages have been described in detail it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be made herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. Moreover the scope of the present application is not intended to be limited to the particular embodiments of the process machine manufacture composition of matter means methods and steps described in the specification. As one of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate from the disclosure of the present invention processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps presently existing or later to be developed that perform substantially the same function or achieve substantially the same result as the corresponding embodiments described herein may be utilized according to the present invention. Accordingly the appended claims are intended to include within their scope such processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps.

