---

title: Managing content remotely on a device
abstract: An on-line service manages downloads of digital content in response to user requests. User requests to download digital content include parameters defining conditions for downloads. Parameters may define the device to which the requested content is to be downloaded and the time that the download is to take place. The requests and related parameters are maintained in a queue which may be centrally managed and maintained. The queue is monitored and downloads executed consistent with the user-specified parameters. Digital content is downloaded to devices other than from which the request was made and at times specified by the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07987238&OS=07987238&RS=07987238
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07987238
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070330
---
This application is related by subject matter to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 731 045 titled Buy Once Play Anywhere filed on even date herewith the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Information that traditionally has been distributed on physical media is now commonly distributed in electronic form via electronic networks. For example information that has traditionally appeared in printed books magazines and newspapers is now distributed electronically via the Internet and World Wide Web Web . Home video games which traditionally have been distributed using physical cartridges compact disks CDs and or digital video disks DVDs are now distributed electronically at services such as for example MICROSOFT XBOX Live www.xbox.com that are accessible via the Internet. Similarly music recordings which traditionally have been distributed using CDs and other physical media are now distributed electronically via Internet services such as for example MICROSOFT Zune Marketplace www.zune.net . Indeed entertainment content of all types motion pictures photographs music recordings novels articles etc. which traditionally have been distributed on physical media are candidates to be distributed electronically at services accessible via electronic networks.

Existing on line services typically download digital content to the electronic device from which the request for digital content was made. For example when a gaming console user requests to download digital content from an on line service the requested digital content which may be a game video music etc. is downloaded to the gaming console from which the request was made. Similarly when a user of a portable media player requests to download digital content the data is downloaded to the media player associated with the request.

Conventionally digital content downloads from on line services begin upon activation by the user at the requesting device. The length of time required for a particular download varies depending upon the size of the digital content item and the availability of bandwidth. If more than one content item is requested the queuing of requests is generally directed at the requesting device. Typically the requests are queued and downloaded in the order that they were entered.

The illustrative service maintains a queue or database of requests for digital content. The queue comprises for each requested digital content item parameters for downloading the requested digital content. The parameters may specify conditions or characteristics associated with the requested download. For example the parameters may define that the requested download is to be made to a particular device or machine or may define that the requested download is to be made at a particular time or during a particular period of time.

The on line service receives requests for digital content from computing devices via a communications network. Upon receiving a request for a digital content item the service identifies the user that made the request the content item requested and any parameters associated with the requested download including for example the device to which the content is to be downloaded and a time for the download. The service updates the queue to reflect the newly received request. The service monitors the queue and downloads the requested content items consistent with the parameters specified in the request.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description of Illustrative Embodiments. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Other features are described below.

In connection with existing on line services for downloading digital content the user is typically required to be present at the digital device in order to activate a download. The downloading of digital content from the service to the requesting device begins synchronously upon initiation of the request for download. The user because he or she must initiate the request as a practical matter is required to be present at the device for the download.

In connection with existing services while a user may need to be present at the device in order to initiate the request the user may also have only limited use of the electronic device while the download is proceeding. For example it is often the case that users request to download content items that comprise a very large amount of data such as high density HD format videos and HD video games. Large digital content items require significant time sometimes hours to download. Large amounts of computing resources such as processor cycles and communication bandwidth may be devoted to the download. As a result there are less computing resources available for the user to direct to other activities. For example during the time that a HD video game is being downloaded to a gaming console the user may not be able to use the gaming console to play games that require significant use of Internet communication. Thus in connection with existing services for downloading digital content not only is the user required to be present in order to activate the download but the user may be limited in his or her use of the digital device during the download.

Existing on line services typically are limited to downloading the requested digital content to the electronic device from which the request was made. For example when a user of a digital media player such as for example a MICROSOFT Zune device request to download digital content from a service such as Zune Marketplace the requested digital content is downloaded to the device from which the request was made. Similarly when a gaming console user requests to download digital content from an on line service the requested digital content which may be a game video music etc. is downloaded to the gaming console from which the request was made. Thus in connection with existing services for downloading digital content the user is limited to downloading to the digital device associated with the request.

The subject matter described herein is directed to an on line service for remotely managing the distribution of digital content. The service allows users to request downloads to devices other than the device from which the request was made and to schedule the download for periods during which the target device does not receive heavy use.

In an illustrative on line service for managing the distribution of digital content user requests to download digital content are received for example via the Internet. The requests may include parameters that define conditions or characteristics for the download. For example the parameters for an illustrative request may specify that the requested digital content item is to be downloaded to a particular mobile media player even though the request was initiated from a gaming console or personal computer. In another illustrative example the parameters may specify that the download of the requested content item is to be made to a particular gaming console during early morning hours when the console is typically not being used and bandwidth is plentiful.

The illustrative on line service maintains a queue of requests that have been received. As new requests are received they are added to the queue. The queue includes for each request any parameters that were defined by the user for the request.

The on line service monitors the queue of requests and downloads the requested digital items consistent with the parameters specified for the requests. For example if the parameters associated with a particular digital content request define that the digital content item is to be downloaded on a particular date at a particular time the on line service will perform the download on the specified data and at the specified time. Similarly if the request specified that the requested content item is to be downloaded to a particular digital device even though the request was initiated from another device the requested content item is downloaded to the requested device.

In an exemplary environment remote service provides access to a plurality of functional services one of which is remote content distribution management . Additional functional services that may be offered by remote service comprise for example browsing for digital content items available for download voice chat friends lists matchmaking roaming feedback tournaments voice messaging content updates etc. The functional services are operated on computing servers and communicate with data stores which may be accessed locally or remotely. Any number of servers and data stores may be used to provide a functional service such as that for remote content distribution management described herein.

Remote service is accessible via communications network . Communications network may be any type of network that is suitable for providing communications between computing devices and remote service . Moreover communications network may comprise a combination of discrete networks which may use different technologies. For example communications network may comprise local area networks LANs wide area networks WAN s or combinations thereof. Communications network may comprise wireless wireline or combination thereof. In an exemplary embodiment communications network comprises the Internet and may additionally comprise any networks adapted to communicate with the Internet.

Persons that wish to access remote service and in particular remote content distribution services may do so using computing devices . Computing devices may be any type of device that is operable to communicate with remote service . For example computing devices may be personal computers game consoles hand held computing devices media players wireless phones personal digital assistants etc. While only three devices are illustrated in it is understood that remote service and functional services may be accessed via any number of computing devices 

Computing arrangement may employ a host of network topologies such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. Thus in computing a client is a process i.e. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program. The client process utilizes the requested service without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computing device such as one of devices that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer i.e. a server . A server such as device is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote network such as the Internet. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server.

Clients and servers communicate with one another utilizing the functionality provided by a protocol layer. For example Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP is a common protocol that is used in conjunction with the World Wide Web WWW or simply the Web. Typically a computer network address such as a Uniform Resource Locator URL or an Internet Protocol IP address is used to identify the server or client computers to each other. Communication among computing devices is provided over a communications medium. In particular the client and server may be coupled to one another via TCP IP connections for high capacity communication.

Content store may comprise an index of the various content items for purposes of retrieving particular digital content items. Content store may be stored for example in database software so as to be readily accessible. The database may make use of any suitable technology such as relational and object databases and may employ any of the commercially available database software such as MICROSOFT SQL.

Functional service for managing content distribution comprises user database . User database comprises information about users that are authorized to manage the distribution of digital content via service . Information regarding users that is stored in database may include for example the person s name address billing information such as credit card information and the digital devices to which the user may download digital content.

Device database comprises information about devices that are registered with the service and to which data may be downloaded. For example database may comprise for device a unique identifier the type s of content readable by the device the format of the content suitable to be downloaded to the device a communication path with the device a storage location on the device at which data should be stored preferred times for downloading data to the device users that may use the device etc. Databases and may make use of any suitable technology such as relational and object databases and may employ any of the commercially available database software such as for example MICROSOFT SQL.

Queue comprises information regarding the requests to download digital content that have been made to service . For example queue may comprise for each request a unique identifier for the request the content item requested for downloaded the person making the request the device from which the request was made the parameters associated with the request and the status of the request. Parameters associated with the request comprise information that defines conditions and or characteristics for downloading data. For example the parameters for a request may define when the requested content item is to be downloaded whether it be on a particular day a particular time of day during a particular window or interval of time when certain conditions exist on the target device and or when certain conditions exist in the network. The request parameters also specify for example particular device s to which the requested content item is to be downloaded. For example the request parameters may define that the content item is to be downloaded to a particular media player game console digital phone and or computer. In an example embodiment queue may comprise entries for digital content that is expected to be released in the future. Parameters associated with such requests may define that the content is to be downloaded when the requested content is released and available through service .

Queue may be stored in any format that is suitable for tracking request information. Queue may be stored in for example a relational database in a data structure stored in random access memory a combination of the two or any other suitable format. It is understood that the requests recorded in queue may be accessed and processed without regard to when the request was received and placed in queue . Queue may be managed and maintained centrally by service .

Download interface server operates as an interface for users to input new requests for content items and to modify existing requests. Server updates queue in response to user inputs and may access user database and device database as needed. For example upon receiving a new request to download a digital content item download interface server updates queue to reflect the new request including all related information such as any parameters. Similarly server receives user inputs to modify previously entered requests for downloads and responds by updating queue accordingly. For example if a user should request to modify the originally requested time for a download server updates queue to reflect the new time.

Users at computing devices may access download interface server in any number of ways. Download interface server may comprise a World Wide Web server and be accessible to users of devices with access to the Web and Web browsing software. Download interface server may also be accessible via an application programming interface API . Users of computing devices may invoke software applications which make use of the API to communicate requests to download interface server .

Queue monitor server monitors queue for requests that are prepared for download. In other words queue monitor server is programmed to respond to any conditions that have been placed on a particular request for digital content. For example a request in queue may have been defined to take place at a particular time or period of time. Queue monitor server identifies when the defined time arrives and downloads the requested content item from content database consistent with the download parameters that were defined by the user and stored in queue . Similarly if the request parameters specify that that the download was to take place the next time that a particular device initiates communication with the service queue monitor server will initiate the download upon the specified device communicating with the service. If the request parameters specify that the download is to take place upon release of the requested content item queue monitor server will coordinate the download upon receipt of the requested content item. Queue monitor server may be maintained and operated centrally by service but may also be implemented using distributed designs.

At step download interface server parses the request and identifies the user that initiated the request and the device from which the request was made. In an illustrative embodiment the requesting user and device are registered with the service and have associated unique identifiers which may be stored in databases and respectively. Server may reference databases and in connection with parsing the request to identify the requesting user and device.

At step download interface server parses the request and or interfaces with the user to identify the content item requested. The content item may be identified for example by a unique identifier that refers to a specific content item in content database . As part of the process of making a request the user may have previously identified and selected a particular content item using a functional service that provides users the ability to browse items in content database . The unique identifier identified in the request may be referenced against digital content in order to identify the particular item that has been requested.

At step download interface server parses the request and or interfaces with the user to identify any download parameters that are associated with the request. The parameters specify any conditions requirements and or characteristics of the download that is to take place. The request parameters may specify that the requested content item is to be downloaded to a particular device. For example the request parameters may define that the content item is to be downloaded to a particular media player game console digital phone and or computer. The parameters for a request may also define when the requested content item is to be downloaded whether it be on a particular day a particular time of day during a particular window or interval of time when certain conditions exist on the target device e.g. the device is not being used when the target device initiates communication with the service and or when certain conditions exist in the network. For example the parameters may specify that the download may proceed upon determining that the available client resources are sufficient. Client resources may include for example communication bandwidth processing capacity etc. Client resource available may be optimal for downloading during off peak hours.

At step download interface server updates queue with the new request. Download interface server may assign a new unique identifier to the request and store it with the information relating to the request in queue . The information stored in relation to the request includes any parameters including the device to which the content is to be downloaded.

Once the request has been received and entered into queue queue monitor operates to initiate the download of requested digital content items consistent with the parameters comprised in the request. is a flow diagram of a process for downloading digital content. At step queue monitor continuously monitors the requests in queue to determine whether the parameters associated with the request have been met. At step queue monitor determines whether the download parameters associated with each request in queue have been satisfied. For example queue monitor may determine whether or not the time or period of time that is specified by the parameters has been satisfied. In another example queue monitor may determine whether or not the target communications device is in communication with the service. In still another example queue monitor determines whether or not the expected content item has been received into content database .

If the parameters are not satisfied queue monitor continues to check the parameters of the requests in queue . However if at step the parameters defined for the requested download are satisfied at step queue monitor initiates the requested download. The download is performed consistent with the parameters defined for the request. For example if the parameters defined that the content item is to be stored at a particular location in memory on the target device the download will be performed as such. If the parameters define that the content item is to be downloaded during off peak hours or during a period of low bandwidth use the download is performed at a time consistent with those parameters.

A graphics processing unit GPU and a video encoder video codec coder decoder form a video processing pipeline for high speed and high resolution graphics processing. Data is carried from the graphics processing unit to the video encoder video codec via a bus. The video processing pipeline outputs data to an A V audio video port for transmission to a television or other display device. A memory controller is connected to the GPU and CPU to facilitate processor access to various types of memory such as but not limited to a RAM Random Access Memory .

Game console includes an I O controller a system management controller an audio processing unit a network interface controller a first USB host controller a second USB controller and a front panel I O subassembly that may be implemented on a module . The USB controllers and serve as hosts for peripheral controllers a wireless adapter and an external memory unit e.g. flash memory external CD DVD ROM drive removable media etc. . The network interface and or wireless adapter provide access to a network e.g. the Internet home network etc. and may be any of a wide variety of various wired or wireless interface components including an Ethernet card a modem a Bluetooth module a cable modem and the like.

System memory is provided to store application data that is loaded during the boot process. A media drive is provided and may comprise a DVD CD drive hard drive or other removable media drive etc. The media drive may be internal or external to the game console . When media drive is a drive or reader for removable media such as removable optical disks or flash cartridges then media drive is an example of an interface onto which or into which media are mountable for reading. Application data may be accessed via the media drive for execution playback etc. by game console . Media drive is connected to the I O controller via a bus such as a Serial ATA bus or other high speed connection e.g. IEEE 3394 . While media drive may generally refer to various storage embodiments e.g. hard disk removable optical disk drive etc. game console may specifically include a hard disk which can be used to store game data application data or other types of data.

The system management controller provides a variety of service functions related to assuring availability of the game console . The audio processing unit and an audio codec form a corresponding audio processing pipeline with high fidelity 3D surround and stereo audio processing according to aspects of the present subject matter described herein. Audio data is carried between the audio processing unit and the audio codec via a communication link. The audio processing pipeline outputs data to the A V port for reproduction by an external audio player or device having audio capabilities.

The front panel I O subassembly supports the functionality of the power button and the eject button as well as any LEDs light emitting diodes or other indicators exposed on the outer surface of the game console . A system power supply module provides power to the components of the game console . A fan cools the circuitry within the game console .

The CPU GPU memory controller and various other components within the game console are interconnected via one or more buses including serial and parallel buses a memory bus a peripheral bus and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures.

When the game console is powered on or rebooted application data can be loaded from the system memory into memory and or caches and executed on the CPU . The application can present a graphical user interface that provides a consistent user experience when navigating to different media types available on the game console . In operation applications and or other media contained within the media drive may be launched or played from the media drive to provide additional functionalities to the game console .

The game console may be operated as a standalone system by simply connecting the system to a television or other display. In this standalone mode the game console may allow one or more users to interact with the system watch movies listen to music and the like. However with the integration of broadband connectivity made available through the network interface or the wireless adapter the game console may further be operated as a participant in a larger network community.

Computing environment is only one example of a suitable computing environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the subject matter disclosed herein. Neither should the computing environment be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the example operating environment .

Aspects of the subject matter described herein are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the subject matter described herein include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices portable media devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

An example system for implementing aspects of the subject matter described herein includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal includes a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

Computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the example operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

Thus an on line service for managing the distribution of digital content has been disclosed. The service allows users to request downloads to devices other than the device from which the request was made and to schedule the download for periods during which the target device does not receive heavy use.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the subject matter described herein or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the subject matter described herein. In the case where program code is stored on media it may be the case that the program code in question is stored on one or more media that collectively perform the actions in question which is to say that the one or more media taken together contain code to perform the actions but that in the case where there is more than one single medium there is no requirement that any particular part of the code be stored on any particular medium. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the subject matter described herein e.g. through the use of an API reusable controls or the like. Such programs are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Although example embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the subject matter described herein in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter described herein is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the subject matter described herein may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers handheld devices supercomputers or computers integrated into other systems such as automobiles and airplanes.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

