---

title: Tungsten plug deposition quality evaluation method by EBACE technology
abstract: A first embodiment of the invention relates to a method for evaluating the quality of structures on an integrated circuit wafer. Test structures formed on either on the integrated or on a test wafer are exposed to an electron beam and an electron-beam activated chemical etch. The electron-beam activated etching gas or vapor etches the test structures, which are analyzed after etching to determine a measure of quality of the test structures. The measure of quality may be used in a statistical process control to adjust the parameters used to form device structures on the integrated circuit wafer. The test structures are formed on an integrated circuit wafer having two or more die. Each die has one or more integrated circuit structures. The test structures are formed on scribe lines between two or more adjacent die. Each test structure may correspond in dimensions and/or composition to one or more of the integrated circuit structures.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07945086&OS=07945086&RS=07945086
owner: KLA-Tencor Technologies Corporation
number: 07945086
owner_city: Milpitas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070112
---
This application claims the benefit of priority of co pending U.S. provisional application No. 60 758 818 entitled to Yehiel Gotkis Sergey Lopatin and Mehran Nasser Ghodsi filed Jan. 12 2006 and entitled TUNGSTEN PLUG DEPOSITION QUALITY EVALUATION METHOD BY EBACE TECHNOLOGY the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support during an effort supported by a Government Other Transaction award number W911NF 04 3 0001 awarded by the U.S. Army Research Laboratory ARL . The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention generally relates to semiconductor fabrication and more particularly to evaluation of the quality of structures on an integrated circuit wafer.

Tungsten plugs transfer current between upper and lower interconnect levels in a semiconductor integrated circuit. Holes are formed in an insulating layer by dry etching. The tungsten is deposited in the holes by a chemical vapor deposition CVD process. Being formed via a surface driven chemical process the tungsten grows from the bottom and walls of the holes. Growth of the tungsten stops when the holes are closed. The holes usually do not close perfectly because of growing layer surface roughness. Because the holes are not perfectly filled there is usually a seam in the center of the tungsten plug. After tungsten deposition an etch or chemical mechanical polishing CMP step removes the overburden. Both dry etch and CMP involve significant degree of chemical reaction with the tungsten overburden. This reaction is active on all kinds of interfaces. Usually the seam becomes the most chemically vulnerable plug location which is etched out during CMP or dry etch. Often one finds a keyhole in the center of the plug as a result of the chemical etching. The holes affect the plug electrical properties and electromigration performance and also trap chemicals inducing corrosion effects. Therefore it is important to evaluate the deposition quality of the tungsten plugs.

The deposition processes parameters may be adjusted to optimize the quality of the plugs. However to do so it is necessary to determine how many plugs have unacceptably large voids. This typically requires etching away the tungsten until the voids in the plugs become visible. A technique is known as electron beam activated chemical etch EBACE . In this technique an etchant is introduced through a needle into the field of view of a scanning electron microscope proximate the surface of an integrated circuit device. The etchant is usually one that is known to respond to electron beam induced activation. Thus localized etching of the surface can be combined with real time imaging of the surface as it is etched. Unfortunately this technique typically involves sacrificing some of the devices on a particular wafer which reduces yield and increases costs.

Thus there is a need in the art for a method of determining the quality of tungsten deposition that overcomes the above disadvantages.

A first embodiment of the invention relates to a method for evaluating the quality of structures on an integrated circuit wafer. Test structures formed either on the integrated or on a test wafer are exposed to an electron beam and an electron beam activated chemical etching gas or vapor. The electron beam activated etching gas or vapor etches the test structures which are analyzed after etching to determine a measure of quality of the test structures. The measure of quality may be used in a statistical process control to adjust the parameters used to form device structures on the integrated circuit wafer.

In a particular embodiment of the invention the test structures are formed on an integrated circuit wafer having two or more die. Each die has one or more integrated circuit structures. The test structures are formed on scribe lines between two or more adjacent die. Each test structure may correspond in dimensions and or composition to one or more of the integrated circuit structures.

Although the following detailed description contains many specific details for the purposes of illustration anyone of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that many variations and alterations to the following details are within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the exemplary embodiments of the invention described below are set forth without any loss of generality to and without imposing limitations upon the claimed invention.

The target includes one or more test structures . The test structures typically correspond in dimensions e.g. diameter and depth to one or more integrated circuit structures that may be located on the target or on another wafer. By way of example and without loss of generality the integrated circuit structures may be conductive interconnects between adjacent layers of an integrated circuit device. Such interconnects may be formed by etching holes through a layer of insulating material and filling the holes with a conductive or semiconductive material e.g. tungsten or silicon.

An electron activated etching gas or vapor is introduced from a remote source via a conduit . It is desirable to introduce the etching gas or vapor as close as possible to the point on the surface of the target impacted by the electrons from the electron beam column . By way of example the etching gas or vapor may be introduced between two adjacent electrodes of the immersion lens . The electrons activate localized etching of the target surface . Images of the etched surface generated by the image analyzer may be analyzed by the image analyzer . The image analysis determines a measure of quality of the test structures e.g. the number and size of voids resulting from the formation of interconnect structures.

As shown in the block diagram of the image generator and image analyzer may be part of a controller . The controller may be a self contained microcontroller. Alternatively the controller may be a general purpose computer configured to include a central processor unit CPU memory e.g. RAM DRAM ROM and the like and well known support circuits such as power supplies input output I O functions clock cache and the like coupled to a control system bus . The memory may contain instructions that the CPU executes to facilitate the performance of the system . The instructions in the memory may be in the form of the program code . The code may control the scanning of the electron beam by the coils and the formation of images with the signal from the detector in a conventional fashion. The code may also implement analysis of the images.

The code may conform to any one of a number of different programming languages such as Assembly C JAVA or a number of other languages. The controller may also include an optional mass storage device e.g. CD ROM hard disk and or removable storage flash memory and the like which may be coupled to the control system bus . The controller may optionally include a user interface such as a keyboard mouse or light pen coupled to the CPU to provide for the receipt of inputs from an operator not shown . The controller may also optionally include a display unit to provide information to the operator in the form of graphical displays and or alphanumeric characters under control of the processor unit . The display unit may be e.g. a cathode ray tube CRT or flat screen monitor.

The controller may exchange signals with the imaging device scanner driver and the detector or amplifier through the I O functions in response to data and program code instructions stored and retrieved by the memory . Depending on the configuration or selection of controller the scanner driver and detector or amplifier may interface with the I O functions via conditioning circuits. The conditioning circuits may be implemented in hardware or software form e.g. within code .

After etching the test structures are analyzed at to determine a measure of quality of the test structures. The test structures may be analyzed by using a scanning electron microscope to produce one or more images of the test structures. The scanning electron microscope SEM may provide the electron beam that interacts with the etching gas or vapor and the sample activating their chemical interaction. If the test structures are located on the integrated circuit wager e.g. on scribe lines between die the use of the highly focused beam of a scanning electron microscope limits exposure of the die to the electron beam and or etching gas or vapor. As a result the etching gas or vapor molecules etch the test structures but not the die.

The images generated by the SEM may be analyzed e.g. by performing pattern recognition on the images to determine the measure of quality. The pattern recognition may include determining a size of a void in each test structure. By way of example the measure of quality may be a number of voids in the test structures that are greater than a predetermined minimum size. A histogram of the sizes of the voids may be created from the pattern recognition information. The histogram may be used in statistical process control of the integrated circuit fabrication process. Alternatively the measure of quality may be an average grey level of one or more of the images. The average grey level may be empirically related to a number of test structures with unacceptably large voids. A yield loss may be determined at a location on the integrated circuit wafer from the measure of quality.

The wafer fabrication process used to form the integrated circuit structures may be adjusted at based on the measure of quality and or statistical process control.

In embodiments of the present in invention test structures may be formed directly on a production integrated circuit wafer. Such embodiments of the invention allow in line quality control that can facilitate a quick response to manufacturing problems and implementation of troubleshooting without using special test wafers or losing product wafers for control and troubleshooting needs. The test structures are located such that the localized etching of the test structures with EBACE does not affect integrated circuit structures on nearby dies. shows an example of a first embodiment of an apparatus for evaluating the quality of the integrated circuit structures. An integrated circuit wafer includes a plurality of die . Each die includes one or more integrated circuit structures . The wafer includes one or more test structures formed at scribe lines between two or more adjacent die . Preferably each test structure corresponds in dimensions and composition to one or more of the integrated circuit structures . For example the integrated circuit structures may be electrical interconnects in the form of conductive or semiconductive plugs formed in holes of a particular diameter through an insulator layer between adjacent device layers. The test structures may be similarly configured and fabricated by the same process used to form the integrated circuit structures. In this way the test structures may be examined for voids or other production related defects without unnecessarily sacrificing integrated circuit structures. In addition information about the location of and number of defective test structures may be used to determine where on the wafer yield loss is a problem. The process can then be adjusted for subsequent wafers based on this information. Pattern recognition analysis of the test structures is particularly suitable in situations involving high cost or limited volume advanced development products.

While the above is a complete description of the preferred embodiment of the present invention it is possible to use various alternatives modifications and equivalents. Therefore the scope of the present invention should be determined not with reference to the above description but should instead be determined with reference to the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents. Any feature whether preferred or not may be combined with any other feature whether preferred or not. In the claims that follow the indefinite article A or An refers to a quantity of one or more of the item following the article except where expressly stated otherwise. The appended claims are not to be interpreted as including means plus function limitations unless such a limitation is explicitly recited in a given claim using the phrase means for. 

