---

title: Catalytic microchannel reformer
abstract: An apparatus and method for enhancing the yield and purity of hydrogen when reforming hydrocarbons is disclosed in one embodiment of the invention as including receiving a hydrocarbon feedstock fuel (e.g., methane, vaporized methanol, natural gas, vaporized diesel, etc.) and steam at a reaction zone and reacting the hydrocarbon feedstock fuel and steam in the presence of a catalyst to produce hydrogen gas. The hydrogen gas is selectively removed from the reaction zone while the reaction is occurring by selectively diffusing the hydrogen gas through a porous ceramic membrane. The selective removal of hydrogen changes the equilibrium of the reaction and increases the amount of hydrogen that is extracted from the hydrocarbon feedstock fuel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08961625&OS=08961625&RS=08961625
owner: Ceramatec, Inc.
number: 08961625
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071219
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent No. 60 871 398 filed on Dec. 21 2006 and entitled CATALYTIC MICROCHANNEL REFORMER which application is incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under grant number DMI 0321692 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates to microreactors and more particularly to microreactors for reforming hydrocarbon fuels and generating hydrogen gas.

A microreactor or microstructured reactor or microchannel reactor is a device in which chemical reactions are designed to take place in confined spaces having lateral dimensions of less than 1 mm. Currently there are major technological issues that prevent current technology from meeting the needs of microreactors for generating hydrogen syngas or performing specialty chemical synthesis. In general gas phase reactions for generating hydrogen and other specialty chemicals require microfabricated components that can perform under harsh operating conditions such as high temperatures high temperature transients or corrosive or erosive environments.

Current microfabrication processes e.g. wet etching dry etching lithography LIGA etc. are primarily applicable to silicon photoresists and metals. These materials readily corrode when subjected to hot gas streams that contain corrosive ingredients such as oxygen steam CO sulphur and trace metals each of which may be present when generating Hfrom natural gas or using gas phase specialty chemical synthesis. Another important factor when generating hydrogen gas for fuel cells is the Hto CO ratio since a higher ratio reduces the cost of CO removal.

The few processes that are available for microfabricating ceramics are either prohibitively expensive due to the need for very expensive precursor materials such as pre ceramic polymers or are unable to attain the high precision required as a result of shrinkage that occurs during sintering. The shrinkage problem in particular often creates a need for very expensive secondary machining operations. Furthermore many high temperature gas phase reactions require passing gas streams over catalysts. The introduction of catalysts into silicon metal or sintered ceramic based microreactors is typically a complex multi step process that requires a high surface area i.e. highly porous wash coat to be applied inside the channels of the microreactor prior to catalyst deposition. This wash coat is necessitated by the very low component surface area of silicon and metals. The wash coat is typically easily damaged during operation because it poorly bonds with silicon metal or sintered ceramic. This characteristic undesirably shortens the life of the microreactor.

In view of the foregoing what are needed are robust ceramic materials for fabricating microreactors that are able to withstand high temperatures high temperature transients or corrosive or erosive environments and thus have excellent thermal shock resistance and thermal cycling properties. Ideally such materials would enable features to be fabricated in net shape and net size with very high precision. Further needed are microreactors that increase the Hto CO ratio to reduce the cost of CO removal by secondary operations such as membrane reactors. Further needed are microreactors to increase the amount of hydrogen that can be extracted from hydrocarbon feedstock fuels. Further needed are ceramic materials that enable cost effective fabrication of microreactors. Yet further needed are porous ceramic materials with intrinsically high surface area that can be infiltrated with catalysts to increase hydrocarbon reformation efficiency.

Consistent with the foregoing and in accordance with the invention as embodied and broadly described herein a method for enhancing the yield and purity of hydrogen when reforming hydrocarbons is disclosed in one embodiment of the invention as including receiving a hydrocarbon feedstock fuel e.g. methane vaporized methanol natural gas vaporized diesel etc. and steam at a reaction zone and reacting the hydrocarbon feedstock fuel and steam in the presence of a catalyst to produce hydrogen gas. The hydrogen gas is selectively removed from the reaction zone while the reaction is in process by selectively diffusing the hydrogen gas through a porous ceramic membrane. The selective removal of hydrogen changes the equilibrium of the reaction and increases the amount of hydrogen that can be extracted from the hydrocarbon feedstock fuel.

In selected embodiments the porous ceramic membrane is fabricated from a mixture of alumina powder and a phosphate containing reagent to react with the alumina powder. For example HSA CERCANAM provides one such material. This material is able to withstand high temperatures high temperature transients and corrosive and erosive environments. Thus this material has excellent thermal shock resistance and thermal cycling properties. In selected embodiments the method further includes providing heat to the reaction zone to react the hydrocarbon feedstock fuel and steam. This heat may be generated by combusting one or more residual reactants or reaction products such as hydrocarbons hydrogen gas and carbon monoxide that are left over or are byproducts of the hydrocarbon steam reaction.

In another aspect of the invention a device for enhancing the yield and purity of hydrogen when reforming hydrocarbons may include an inlet for receiving a hydrocarbon feedstock fuel and steam. A reaction zone may be placed in communication with the inlet to react the hydrocarbon feedstock fuel and steam in the presence of a catalyst to produce hydrogen gas. A porous ceramic membrane is provided to selectively remove hydrogen gas from the reaction zone while the reaction in occurring thereby increasing the extent of reaction between the hydrocarbon feedstock fuel and the steam and increasing the yield of hydrogen.

In yet another aspect of the invention a ceramic microchannel device for reforming a hydrocarbon fuel to produce hydrogen gas is disclosed. This ceramic microchannel device is fabricated at least in part from a ceramic made be mixing alumina powder with a phosphate containing reagent to react with the alumina powder.

In yet another aspect of the invention a method for enhancing the yield and purity of hydrogen when reforming hydrocarbons includes receiving a hydrocarbon feedstock fuel and steam at a reaction zone. The hydrocarbon feedstock fuel and steam are then reacted at the reaction zone to produce hydrogen gas. The hydrogen gas is then selectively removed from the reaction zone while the reaction is occurring by extracting hydrogen gas or hydrogen ions from the reaction zone. In selected embodiments the hydrogen gas is removed from the reaction zone by diffusing the hydrogen gas through a porous ceramic membrane. In other embodiments hydrogen gas is removed from the reaction zone by conducting hydrogen ions through an ionically conductive ceramic membrane.

It will be readily understood that the components of the present invention as generally described and illustrated in the Figures herein could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following more detailed description of the embodiments of the invention as represented in the Figures is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as claimed but is merely representative of certain examples of presently contemplated embodiments in accordance with the invention. The presently described embodiments will be best understood by reference to the drawings wherein like parts are designated by like numerals throughout.

Referring to in selected embodiments a catalytic microchannel reformer in accordance with the invention may be adapted to receive an input comprising a hydrocarbon feedstock fuel and steam at a reaction zone . For the purposes of this description a hydrocarbon includes any molecule containing both hydrogen and carbon. In selected embodiments the reaction zone may exist within one or more microchannels of the device as will be explained in more detail hereafter. In selected embodiments an input comprising methane CH the primary constituent in natural gas and steam HO may be used as the inputs to the reaction zone . For the purposes of this disclosure methane will be used as the hydrocarbon feedstock fuel. In other embodiments however other hydrocarbon feedstock fuels such as propane methanol diesel or the like may be used in place of methane. Where the feedstock fuel is a liquid some pre heating may be performed to vaporize the liquids prior to input to the reformer .

At the reaction zone the reactants may be heated to approximately 650 C. to 700 C. in the presence of a catalyst such as a nickel based catalyst or other catalyst known in the art. The catalyst will cause the steam and methane to react to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen in accordance with the following reaction CH HO CO 3H

This reaction is commonly referred to as steam methane reforming SMR which is one of the most common and least expensive methods for producing bulk hydrogen. In selected embodiments the reactant stream may be pre heated prior to being input to the device to aid the reformation process and reduce the time and amount of heat that is required to bring the reactants to the necessary temperature.

In selected embodiments additional hydrogen may be recovered at the reaction zone using a lower temperature 550 C. to 600 C. gas shift reaction. This reaction may react the carbon monoxide CO generated above with steam to produce hydrogen gas and carbon dioxide in accordance with the following equation CO HO CO H

This reaction is commonly referred to as a water gas shift WGS reaction. Both of the above reactions require steam as one of the reactants. In selected embodiments a high steam to methane ratio e.g. 2 1 may be provided in the input stream to ensure that coking is minimized during the SMR and WGS reactions.

In selected embodiments the microchannel reformer may be designed such that the SMR and WGS reactions take place isothermally. Because the microchannel reformer may be very small with dimensions on the order of several inches the small size may impose substantially isothermal conditions. In general a higher temperature generally above 600 C. favors the forward reaction in the case of SMR and the reverse reaction in the case of WGS. This is one reason why these two reactions are generally not combined in a single reactor. However in selected embodiments a microchannel reformer in accordance with the invention may combine both of these reactions in a single device . Both of these reactions may be driven to near completion by continuously removing hydrogen gas from the reaction zone . This may be accomplished using a porous ceramic membrane with micro or nano sized pores located adjacent to the reaction zone . As the SMR and WGS reactions proceed in a forward direction hydrogen gas may selectively diffuse through the membrane creating a deficit of product hydrogen in the reaction zone . This deficit may drive the SMR and WGS reactions nearer to completion. In alternative embodiments an ionically conductive membrane may be used to selectively remove hydrogen gas from the reaction zone by transporting hydrogen ions through the membrane .

For the purpose of this description selectively removing hydrogen from the reaction zone may also include removing other gaseous species from the reaction zone by diffusion through the membrane although this may occur at a significantly lower diffusion rate. Thus the term selectively as used herein does not necessarily mean exclusively removing hydrogen but rather that the membrane may remove hydrogen gas from the reaction zone at a faster rate than it removes other gaseous species. The higher diffusion rate of hydrogen is primarily due to hydrogen s lower molecular weight compared to other gaseous species in the reformer . The diffusion rate is proportional to the square root of the molecular weight of each gas. By removing hydrogen from the reaction zone faster than other gaseous species the equilibrium of the SMR and WGS reactions may be shifted driving the reactions nearer to completion.

As shown in a product stream may contain primarily H but may also include secondary gaseous species such as CO CO HO and CH. Reactants and reaction products that do not diffuse through the membrane which may include primarily COand HO but may also include residual CO H and CH may be conveyed to a combustion zone . Here the reactants and reaction products may be combusted in the presence of air to generate heat and fully oxidize the remaining reactants in accordance with the following equations 2CO O 2CO Heat 2H O 2HO Heat CH 2O CO 2HO Heat

After combustion an exhaust stream containing primarily COand HO may be output from the microchannel reformer . Ideally the microchannel reformer will be designed such that the amount of combustible gases conveyed to the combustion zone will produce enough heat to drive the SMR reactions in the reaction zone while still maximizing the amount of hydrogen in the product stream . Table I below shows various calculations with respect to the gas compositions at various locations in the microchannel reformer . The calculations in Table I assume that the extents of reaction for both the SMR and WGS reactions stay constant through the reaction zone . More specifically Table I shows approximate gas compositions inside the reaction zone and the product zone assuming that the extent of reaction for both the SMR and WGS reactions is 0.9 and the initial steam to methane ratio is 2 1.

As indicated in Table I the diffusion rate of hydrogen is almost three times greater than the next closest gas. Furthermore Table I shows that the gas composition in the reaction zone may include about 73.1 percent Hafter the SMR and WGS reactions have progressed to near completion. The Hconcentration in the product stream may increase to about 91.4 percent after the hydrogen and other gases diffuse through the membrane . This concentration may increase to about 93.8 percent after water is removed e.g. condensed from the product stream . The hydrogen concentration may be increased even further if the COis removed from the product stream through a process such as compression and liquefaction.

As mentioned previously gas phase reactions for generating hydrogen or syngas typically require microfabricated components that can perform under harsh operating conditions such as high temperatures high temperature transients or corrosive or erosive environments. Such materials should have excellent thermal shock resistance and thermal cycling properties. Further needed are materials that enable features to be fabricated in net shape and net size with very high precision.

In selected embodiments in accordance with the invention ceramic materials marketed under the tradename CERCANAM may be used to fabricate all or part of the catalytic microchannel reformer . These ceramic materials may be classified as either HAS CERCANAM which has a very high surface area and a continuous nanopore network or regular CERCANAM or LSA CERCANAM which is substantially the same material but is designed to have a lower surface area and thus a reduced pore structure. In general these ceramic materials may be classified as phosphate bonded ceramic materials. That is each of these CERCANAM compositions may be fabricated from ceramic powders e.g. alumina powder combined with phosphate containing reagents e.g. phosphoric acid . The phosphate containing reagents may react with the ceramic powders to bond the ceramic powders together.

In selected embodiments the pore structure of the HSA CERCANAM may be created or enhanced simply by adding a pore former to the LSA CERCANAM slip. CERCANAM and similar materials are disclosed for example in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 464 476 filed on Aug. 14 2006 and entitled PROCESS FOR MAKING CERAMIC INSULATION and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 781 125 filed on Jul. 20 2007 and entitled METHOD FOR JOINING CERAMIC COMPONENTS both of which are incorporated by this reference.

The CERCANAM material described herein is particularly suitable for fabricating a catalytic microchannel reformer in accordance with the invention. For example both HSA CERCANAM and LSA CERCANAM exhibit thermal stability in oxidizing and reducing environments up to 1000 C. for at least 16 hours. Thus this material may be used to fabricate a microchannel reformer with long life and minimal component degradation. Furthermore both HSA CERCANAM and LSA CERCANAM exhibit excellent thermal shock resistance when rapidly cycled between room temperature and 800 C. This facilitates rapid heating or cooling of the microchannel reformer during startup or shutdown. In selected embodiments fuel in the microchannel reformer may be spark ignited for rapid heat up to 700 C.

Another benefit of both HSA CERCANAM and LSA CERCANAM is that these ceramic materials may be microfabricated in net shape and net size with very high precision. In selected embodiments these materials may be cast in various shapes and forms to fabricate monolithic components. The unique characteristics of CERCANAM allow it to be cast on and around features either sacrificial or permanent. Using sacrificial features for example microchannels may be incorporated internally into a monolithic CERCANAM piece in a simple one step process. Where structures include both HSA CERCANAM and LSA CERCANAM the structure may be fabricated in two casts one each for HSA CERCANAM and LSA CERCANAM . The ability to fabricate CERCANAM components using minimal fabrication steps significantly lowers component costs.

In selected embodiments in accordance with the invention a microchannel reformer may be fabricated from both HSA CERCANAM and LSA CERCANAM compositions. For example the cross hatched portions of the reformer may be fabricated from LSA CERCANAM while the cross hatched portions may be fabricated from HSA CERCANAM . Thus in selected embodiments the membrane may be fabricated from HSA CERCANAM because it provides a material with high surface area and a network of sub micron and non sized pores. The pore size and structure may be tailored as needed to provide a membrane with desired characteristics. HSA CERCANAM has been found to provide an effective membrane to selectively remove hydrogen from the reaction zone and thereby drive the SMR and WGS reactions nearer to completion.

In selected embodiments a wall or surface of the reaction zone may also be fabricated from HSA CERCANAM . This wall may be infiltrated or embedded with a catalyst material as previously discussed herein. The intrinsically high surface area of HSA CERCANAM improves the contact between the hydrocarbon feedstock and the catalyst thereby improving the yield of hydrogen gas in the product stream compared to other materials. This improvement in efficiency will be discussed in association with .

Although specific reference has been made herein to CERCANAM the reformer is not limited these materials. Indeed any reformer which utilizes a porous or ionically conductive membrane to selectively remove hydrogen from the reaction zone while the reactions therein are occurring is intended to fall within the scope of the invention. CERCANAM or similar materials simply provide one example of materials that may be used to fabricate a reformer in accordance with the invention.

Referring to in other embodiments a microchannel reformer in accordance with the invention may be designed in a symmetric configuration to improve efficiency and generate additional product. For example a microchannel reformer may receive dual inputs streams each containing a hydrocarbon feedstock fuel and steam. These streams may be conveyed to dual reaction zones which may exist within microchannels of the device . A porous ceramic membrane may be placed adjacent to each reaction zone . Each of these ceramic membranes may communicate with a single product zone which may output a product stream . Similarly each of the reaction zones may communicate with a different combustion zone where residual reactants and reaction products may be combusted to produce heat to drive the SMR and WGS reactions. By using dual reaction zones more catalyst infiltrated surface area is available to increase the efficiency of the reactor .

Referring to in selected embodiments a catalytic microchannel reformer in accordance with the invention may be scalable in order to produce hydrogen at a desired rate. For example in selected embodiments multiple microchannel reformers each working in accordance with the reformer of may be fabricated as interconnectable modules . These modules may be linked together to create a stack having a desired hydrogen production rate. Furthermore modules may be added or removed from the stack as needed to increase or decrease the hydrogen production rate.

Referring to in selected embodiments a microchannel reformer module may include one or more input ports to receive an input stream namely a hydrocarbon feedstock fuel and steam. A central product port may output a product stream containing hydrogen gas as the primary constituent. Exhaust ports may be used to expel an exhaust stream as well as supply air i.e. oxygen to an internal combustion zone . As shown in selected embodiments the input ports and product port may be located on a central interface plate allowing the ports to interface with corresponding ports on adjacent modules 

Referring to a cutaway perspective view of the microchannel reformer module of is illustrated. The module includes input streams a product stream and exhaust streams to show the flow of gases through the module . These streams may be compared to the schematic diagram of to more fully understand the flow and operation of the microchannel reformer . As shown ports are provided on a top and bottom side of the module to allow the input stream to flow to other downstream modules as well as receive a product stream from downstream modules . The reactions zones combustion zones and porous ceramic membranes are also shown within the device .

As explained previously in selected embodiments where CERCANAM is used as the fabrication material the module may be fabricated in as few as two processing steps while understanding that the fabrication process is not limited to any specific number of steps. That is the entire structure may be fabricated in two casts namely one cast for the HSA CERCANAM portions and one cast for the LSA CERCANAM portions. Channels in the structure may be formed by inserting sacrificial organic inserts into the CERCANAM slip such as mylar or plastic inserts. When the CERCANAM structure is fired these organic materials may burn away to leave the desired channels in the structure .

Referring to an alternative cutaway perspective view of the microchannel reformer module of is illustrated. Like the cutaway view of the module is illustrated with the input stream product stream and exhaust stream to show the flow of gases through the module . The porous ceramic membranes and product zones are also shown.

Referring to as mentioned in relation to Table I the combination of a higher initial concentration of Hin the reaction zone and the higher diffusivity of Hcompared to other gas species will result in a product gas stream with very high purity e.g. greater than 91 percent hydrogen on a wet basis . We can carry this simplified calculation a bit further by exploring the variation of the product gas composition as a function of the extent of reaction for each reaction i.e. the SMR and WGS reactions while keeping the extent of reaction for the other reaction constant. shows the product gas composition as the extent of the SMR reaction goes from zero to full completion. shows the product gas composition as the extent of the WGS reaction goes from zero to full completion.

As shown in when the extent of the SMR reaction exceeds 0.6 the product gas composition is over 85 percent H even where the extent of the WGS reaction is as low as 0.1. As shown in where the extent of the SMR reaction is held constant the Hconcentration is only a mild function of the extent of the WGS reaction. Thus as long as the extent of the SMR reaction is 0.9 or higher an Hconcentration of over 90 percent can be expected in the product gas stream .

The calculations provided in are based on a number of simplifying assumptions and thus should only be used as a guideline. For example these calculations do not consider the thermodynamics of the SMR and WGS reactions. Furthermore these calculations do not account for the fact that the reformer gas concentration may vary along the length of the microchannels resulting in variations in gas concentration percolating across the channels at different locations in the reformer . Furthermore the extents of reaction are not independent of each other. For example as the extent of the SMR reaction increases more CO and Hmay be generated in the reactor . Because His removed from the reaction zone much faster than CO this would create an excess of reactants for the WGS reaction thereby driving the equilibrium composition further towards the product side of the reaction. In addition the selective removal of Halso drives the SMR reaction further towards the product side.

Other simplifying assumptions ignore other possible reactions that may occur in the reactor such as coking reactions as indicated by the following equations CO H HO C CH 2H C

The first coking reaction is not favored in the presence of excess steam since steam is on the product side of the reaction and excess steam favors the reverse reaction. On the other hand too much steam in the feed gas is also non ideal since it reduces the overall efficiency of the microreactor due to the energy required to heat the excess steam.

Referring to the difference in methane reforming capability for catalysts embedded in different CERCANAM materials is illustrated. The upper curve represents the extent of the SMR reaction where the catalyst is infiltrated or embedded in a wall made of HSA CERCANAM . The lower curve represents the extent of the SMR reaction where the catalyst is infiltrated or embedded in a wall made of LSA CERCANAM . The graph shows that the extent of the SMR reaction was significantly better for HSA CERCANAM than it was for the LSA CERCANAM for all measured flow rates. These results show that the higher Hyields in the product gas stream are likely due to the increased intimacy of contact between the catalyst and methane in the catalyst infiltrated HSA CERCANAM wall .

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

