---

title: Automatic subscriptions to shared repositories with notifications reflecting accesses by important other users and keywords stored in a personal interest profile
abstract: A system and method for automatically generating and receiving notifications regarding accesses to documents in a shared repository, where the notifications are filtered such that they are only generated and/or received for accesses that match a personal interest profile of a local user. The personal interest profile of the local user includes a number of keywords determined to be of interest to the local user, as well as a number of important person identifiers associated with other users determined to be important to the local user. The system is operable to provide notifications in response to accesses by important other users to shared documents, including reading of those documents by the important other users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07821405&OS=07821405&RS=07821405
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07821405
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071030
---
The present application is a Continuation application under 35 U.S.C. 120 of commonly owned prior application Ser. No. 11 078 828 filed Mar. 11 2005 in the names of Niklas Heidloff et al. now U.S. Pat. No. 7 323 999 having a title of AUTOMATIC SUBSCRIPTIONS TO SHARED REPOSITORIES WITH NOTIFICATIONS REFLECTING ACCESSES BY IMPORTANT OTHER USERS AND KEYWORDS STORED IN A PERSONAL INTEREST PROFILE. 

The present invention relates generally to sharing data among computer system users and more specifically to a system and method for automatic subscriptions to documents created in shared repositories with a user specific filter.

As it is generally known various computer software systems have been developed that allow users to share information and discuss topics. These applications have sometimes been referred to as teamspaces . For example Lotus Notes includes constructs such as teamrooms Quickplaces and other server side databases. Lotus Workplace also includes document libraries and discussions in Workplace Teamspaces. Other examples include discussion forums on the Internet etc.

Since many users spend most of their time in their email application they often don t see changes in shared repositories or they see changes too late for them to be useful. For example if a user adds a question to an online help desk discussion they may not frequently visit the discussion to check whether someone has responded.

The concept of subscriptions allows users to be notified when something changes in a shared repository. An example of a subscription approach is found in Lotus Notes which allows users to add subscriptions manually in order to receive certain change notifications. A potential problem may arise however if users do not use the subscription feature because they don t want to or don t have time to manually enter change subscriptions. Sometimes users are not even aware of the feature s existence. Manual subscription features may also result in a user subscribing to too many changes causing them to receive too many email notifications resulting in their inbox being flooded.

There are also existing systems that provide automatic subscriptions. These systems operate such that when a document is created added or modified within a teamspace or when a response is added notifications are automatically sent. However these existing systems may also cause an email flood to a user s inbox by generating a large number of notifications. Notifications may be sent when responses are added by other users that are not even known to the receiver of the notifications. Moreover existing automatic subscription systems do not provide notification filtering or generation based on keywords. As a result the receiving user may have no or limited interest in many notifications they are sent. Finally existing systems include no mechanism for providing notifications regarding documents that have been accessed or read by persons that are important to a user even though such documents may not have been created or modified by the important person.

To address the above described and other shortcomings of the prior art a system and method are disclosed for automatically generating and receiving notifications regarding accesses to documents in a shared repository where the notifications are filtered such that they are only generated and or received for accesses that match a personal interest profile of a local user. The personal interest profile of the local user includes a number of keywords determined to be of interest to the local user as well as a number of important person identifiers associated with other users determined to be important to the local user. The disclosed system is operable to provide notifications in response to accesses by important other users to shared documents including reading of those documents by the important other users.

The personal interest profile may be automatically determined and dynamically maintained for the local user. The personal interest profile may automatically determine identifiers of other users that are important to the local user based on some predetermined criteria. For example users that have recently and or frequently communicated with the local user may be considered to be important other users and their identifiers may be automatically stored in the local user s personal interest profile in response to monitoring of a communications application on the local computer system. Similarly such important other users may be automatically determined from the contents of a contact list address book or other database within such a communications application. The keywords stored in the personal interest profile may be automatically determined based on monitoring the contents of communications with the local user through a communications application such as email messages instant messages etc. For example such keywords may be determined based on the frequency of occurrence of words or phrases contained in recent email messages instant messages or other types of communications. Similarly the keywords in the personal interest profile may be automatically determined in response to the words or phrases contained in predetermined portions of messages such as the subject line of email messages communicated with the local user.

The disclosed system advantageously provides notifications in response to accesses to shared documents including read operations. Accordingly in the event that an important other user reads a document in a monitored shared content source the disclosed system will send a notification to the local user indicating that such a read operation has occurred. Thus the local user is kept informed regarding what documents in the shared repositories are being read by important persons indicated in the personal interest profile. Notifications regarding reads of documents by important persons may be filtered with regard to keywords within the personal interest profile such that notifications regarding reads by important other persons are only provided with respect to reads of documents that include such keywords.

The disclosed system recognizes that if another user makes a modification to a discussion thread in a shared repository and the local user has never communicated with that user that change is often not as important to the local user as a change made by a user determined to be important to the local user. For example a user may add a document to an Internet discussion forum in order to share some information but may not need or want an answer. In such circumstances the user does not want to be disturbed or potentially even flooded by email notifications about changes related to the discussion thread containing the document. However if another user that is relatively important to the local user such as their manager responds to the posting the local user may want to receive a notification about such a response.

Embodiments of the disclosed system may further allow notifications for some shared content sources for all changes made independent of the personal interest profile. Such embodiments may optionally provide personal interest profile filtering for example by prompting the local user when they create or add a document or thread to determine whether they want to receive all notifications or only notifications reflecting the personal interest profile of the local user.

As shown in an illustrative embodiment of the disclosed system includes a number of communication applications having a contact list or database an event generating process with a personal interest profile containing keywords and important person identifiers and further maintaining identifiers of shared content sources to monitor and an application providing identifiers of shared content sources. During operation of the embodiment shown in a user sends messages and receives messages through the communication application . The personal interest profile may for example be generated and maintained based on the user s use of the communication application . For example the keywords that are passed to the event generating process for storage in the personal interest profile may be determined based on the contents of messages sent from and or received by the user through the communication application .

They keywords may be determined based on some predetermined criteria. For example the keywords may consist of only those words or phrases occurring most frequently within messages communicated through the communication application or those words or phrases occurring most recently within such messages. The important person identifiers passed to the event generating process for storage in the personal interest profile may consist of other users to whom messages are sent or from whom messages are received through the communication application . Alternatively or in addition the keywords may be read from some predetermined portion of messages communicated through the communication application . Such a predetermined message portion may for example consist of a subject line in electronic mail messages or any other message field. The keywords stored in the personal interest profile may consist of words phrases topics or other specific types strings of text or characters.

The important person identifiers may for example be read from an address book contact list or similar construct associated with the communication application and passed to the event generating process for storage in the personal interest profile . The important person identifiers may alternatively or additionally be determined based on the destination and source fields of messages sent and received by the communication application . Such important person identifiers may reflect all persons that the user has communicated with using the communication application or consist only of some number or percentage of those persons with which the user most frequently communicates using the communication application . The important person identifiers stored in the personal interest profile may consist of any specific type of user identifiers such as user names electronic mail addresses instant messaging screen names or the like. The communication application may consist of an electronic mail instant messaging or other specific type of communication application.

The collection of the important person identifiers and keywords by the event generating process from the communication application occurs automatically without requiring the user to subscribe register or perform any other kind of explicit request for notifications.

The application program from which the important content sources are collected may consist of any application through which the user accesses content sources such as an Internet Browser program or the like or a system administration or management program that allows a system administrator to indicate which content sources are interesting to and accessible by a given user. The important content source identifiers may consist of any appropriate content source identifier for a given embodiment. Examples of important content source identifiers include links to Web pages file names and or directory paths to files or documents stored on local or networked storage devices. The important content source identifiers refer to content stored in the shared content sources which may include any specific type of shared information repository. The important content source identifiers may indicate files or documents to which accessibility is defined by associated access control lists ACLs or other access control mechanism. In such an embodiment a system administrator may define both the important content sources identifiers for a given user as well as define the users for which access is provided to each document file content source or other unit of content. Such controls may be provided to a system administrator for example through the application .

During operation of the embodiment shown in the event generating process monitors actions performed on the shared content sources such as read modify delete or add operations. As shown for purposes of illustration in actions such as reads and writes are detected by the event generating process . The reads and writes may be passed first through an important person event filter which prevents notifications from being generated unless the actions are performed by an important person indicated by the personal interest profile . Next the filtered actions may be passed through the keyword event filter which prevents notifications from being generated unless the actions are performed on a document containing or associated with one of the keywords in the personal interest profile .

As a result of applying the important person event filter and the keyword event filter only actions performed by one of the important persons indicated by the important person identifiers on content in the shared content sources that indicated by one of the important content source identifiers and containing at least one of the keywords stored in the personal interest profile result in an event notification being generated. The event notification may include an indication of the specific content that was subject to the detected action such as a Web page file or document identifier. The event notification may further include an indication of the important person that performed the action such as the important person identifier associated with that person and or an indication or highlighting of the keyword s contained in the content. The shared content sources may consist of any specific kind of document repository that is shared by multiple users.

Event notification may for example be received by the user through the communication application or alternatively through some other mechanism. Accordingly the event notification may be passed from the event generating process directly to the user or to the user through the communication application . The user may receive the event notification through their normal message receiving path provided through the communication application such as the inbox of an electronic mail application program instant messaging session or the like.

An indication or copy of the event notification may also be stored in an event log providing a record of which notifications have previously been sent to the user and at what time such notifications were sent. Based on the content of the event log the event generating process may operate to limit the number of times a notification is provided with regard to a given item of content. The event generating process may operate to provide event notifications regarding actions performed on a specific content item once per pre determined or user configured time period such as once per day.

At step important shared content sources for the user are determined. The important shared content sources may be determined automatically based on monitoring of user actions with regard to accessing shared data repositories. The important shared content sources may include shared data repositories that are accessed by the user or that are accessed relatively more frequently by the user than other shared data repositories. Alternatively the important shared content sources determined at step may be provided expressly for a given user by the user or by a system administrator through a graphical user interface or the like. At step the disclosed system monitors important shared content sources for reads and at step the disclosed system monitors important shared content sources for writes. While the steps and are shown in sequential order for purposes of illustration in those skilled in the art will recognize that these two steps may be performed in parallel or in reverse order with respect to the order shown in . Moreover the writes monitored in step may further include add modify or delete operations.

In response to detection of actions on the shared content sources detected at steps and user notifications indicating those actions are provided to the user at step . For example at step user notifications may be initially filtered by an important person filter such that notifications are only generated for reads or writes performed by important persons identified in the personal interest profile of the user. Subsequently a keyword filter may be applied to prevent notifications from being generated except with respect to actions performed on shared content containing or associated with one or more keywords in the user s personal interest profile.

While the previous discussion describes application of an important user filter prior to a keyword filter for purposes of explanation other embodiments are possible. In such alternative embodiments keyword and important person filtering of event notifications may be partly or completely performed in some other specific order as appropriate for a specific implementation. Similarly the steps of are not limited to the specific order shown in the figure and may also be partly or completely performed in other orders as may be appropriate under specific circumstances.

The disclosed system advantageously enables a user to spend large amounts of time in a communication application program without having to explicitly check shared content files or documents for changes and still conveniently maintain an awareness of when important documents within such shared content is accessed. In this way the disclosed system enables a communications program to function as a personal portal to a variety of applications and or on line activities. There is no need for a user to be aware of how the system works to expressly subscribe to notifications or expressly define either the keywords important users or important content sources on which to base the generated event notifications. The disclosed system can further conveniently identify the important person that performed the action on the important content in the notification provided to the user and or indicate the keyword s associated with that content thus enabling the user to better determine how urgently they should review the shared content. This information may additionally be combined in the event notification with the identifier of the important content that has been changed.

The disclosed system may thus provide event notifications based on the automatically generated personal interest profile reflecting use of one or more communication applications. The set of important content sources can also be determined automatically for example by reading the bookmarks in a user s Internet Browser program without explicit user interaction. The event generating process of the disclosed system may be implemented centrally within a shared database using programming hooks provided in the database to allow future expansion. For example in a shared repository consisting of an on line discussion database each time someone in the discussion modifies adds or deletes a document in the discussion database a determination would be made by the event generating process to determine which users are to be provided with event notifications based on the important person and important content source information maintained for each member of the on line discussion. Alternatively the event generating and or filtering provided by the disclosed system based on a personal interest profile may be performed on the relevant user s system. In such an alternative embodiment the information regarding important persons keywords and important content sources may be collected and stored locally on the user s computer system and may be used to generate event notifications locally on the user s system or to filter events received from a central event notification generator.

In a use case example of an embodiment of the disclosed system a user P1 might be a technical lead in a development team for a project with name Zebra . Another person P2 on the team might need to know about specifications that P1 defines relating to project Zebra. There may further be a shared repository S in which information including specifications are stored regarding a number of projects including project Zebra. If P1 adds a new Zebra specification to S then P2 wants to know. However P2 does not want to be notified when other people add documents to S or when P1 adds a document unrelated to Zebra. An embodiment of the disclosed system may use an interest profile associated with P2 in which P1 would be listed as an important person and Zebra would be listed as a keyword. In addition P2 has accessed S which provides an indication that the source S is of special interest to him. As a result whenever P1 adds a document to S that contains the term Zebra P2 is notified for example by email SIP Session Initiation Protocol message or other type of message that there is a new Zebra document in S.

The above described embodiments may be modified in various ways. For example a mixture of automatically determined and manual inputs may be used to obtain the keywords and or important persons and or important sources for a user. The system may be implemented such that users can manually define the keywords or persons that are important for their daily work and manually add links to important content sources while indications of such important persons and important content sources are also being calculated automatically. Moreover a variety of specific approaches may be used to automatically determining keywords or important persons based on the user s use of a communication application. These approaches include determinations based on frequency of communications between the user and other persons how recently the user has communicated with other users and other specific techniques.

Similarly various specific techniques can be used by the disclosed system to avoid redundant notifications based on the above described notification log. The notification log may itself be used to store and periodically obtain and send notifications regarding individual documents for example only once a day. Alternatively rather than sending one notification for each changed document or for each document change a software agent may be used to run on a scheduled basis e.g. every night to generate one notification for the user including a list of links to document changes in shared sources.

Those skilled in the art should readily appreciate that programs defining the functions of the present invention can be delivered to a computer in many forms including but not limited to a information permanently stored on non writable storage media e.g. read only memory devices within a computer such as ROM or CD ROM disks readable by a computer I O attachment b information alterably stored on writable storage media e.g. floppy disks and hard drives or c information conveyed to a computer through communication media for example using wireless baseband signaling or broadband signaling techniques including carrier wave signaling techniques such as over computer or telephone networks via a modem.

While the invention is described through the above exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that modification to and variation of the illustrated embodiments may be made without departing from the inventive concepts herein disclosed. Moreover while the preferred embodiments are described in connection with various illustrative program command structures one skilled in the art will recognize that the may be embodied using a variety of specific command structures.

