---

title: Apparatus and process for conjunctive normal form processing
abstract: A method for analyzing system-problems, comprising the steps of: accepting from a user an input describing a system having a problem; parsing the user input to create a boolean representation of the system, the boolean representation comprising a series of equations; determining that the boolean representation comprises an unsatisfiable series of equations; for each equation in the series of equations, performing the steps of: creating a modified series of equations by removing the equation from the series of equations; and determining if the modified series of equations is satisfiable, and, if the modified series of equations is satisfiable, deriving a solution wording from the removed equation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07644058&OS=07644058&RS=07644058
owner: 
number: 07644058
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070420
---
This application claims priority to provisional application 60 794 459 filed on Apr. 25 2006 entitled System and Method for Automated Problem Analysis and Solution

Appendix A to this application is set forth on a single compact disc and the material recorded thereon is incorporated by reference herein. The following files are recorded on the compact disc 

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention is directed to a system and method for systems related problem formulation analysis and solution. More specifically the instant invention is directed to a system and method for formulating analyzing and solving system related problems based on functional descriptions of such systems.

Methods for solving systems related problems are well known in the art. These include methods based on Genrich Altschuller s Theory of Inventive Problem Solving known generally by its Russian acronym TRIZ .

Methodologies based on classical TRIZ are difficult to apply because they do not readily identify the problems to be solved for complex systems. Certain patents attempt to solve such shortcomings. U.S. Pat. No. 5 581 663 for example provides a graph based implementation which provides some problem identification functionality for complex systems.

Prior art systems such as that disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 581 663 read system description and or problem situation description in the form shown in Table 1.

Originally graphs included only three types of links namely is required for causes and eliminates links. Subsequently other solutions introduced other link types while generally remaining within the graph model.

After building graphs from user input i.e. user text prior art systems apply certain structural checks to the graphs such as incoming links compatibility loop identification unconnected islands identification and the like as will be readily understood by those of skill in the art. Upon concluding such structural checks these systems formulate verbose renderings for each node of the graph that is they constructed word based formulations for each graph node. This formulation takes into account the types of links of each node as well as the nodes in the immediate vicinity. For example for the description of Table 1 above the wordings would be 

In addition to the undesirable static nature of the prior art graph based implementation this approach does not differentiate between relevant and irrelevant conditions as illustrated by the following example. One first considers the problem description of Table 3 below.

Another problem which the prior art does not address is the problem of multi path cause effect chains such as the one illustrated in Table 5 below.

A final problem left unaddressed by the prior art is that of analysis of alternative chains as illustrated in Tables 6 and 7.

It is therefore desirable to have a system for formulating analyzing and solving system related problems that allows for would be non static values at its nodes. It is further desirable to have a system for analyzing and solving system related problems capable of identifying functions deserving of heightened scrutiny or additional analysis. It is also desirable to have a system for analyzing and solving system related problems having multi path cause effects. Finally it is desirable to have a system capable of analyzing alternative function chains.

The subject invention is directed to a new and useful system and method for formulating analyzing and solving system related problems that allows for would be values at its nodes.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention discloses a method for analyzing system problems comprising the steps of accepting from a user an input describing a system or situation having a problem parsing the user input to create a boolean representation of the system or situation the boolean representation comprising a series of equations determining that the boolean representation comprises an unsatisfiable series of equations for each equation in the series of equations performing the steps of creating a modified series of equations by removing the equation from the series of equations and determining if the modified series of equations is satisfiable and if the modified series of equations is satisfiable deriving a solution wording from the removed equation.

In the foregoing method each equation in the series may comprise at least one target variable and at least one non target variable and the step of deriving a solution wording from the removed equation may comprise the steps of finding a target variable in the equation creating a list of positive non target variables in the equation creating a list of negative non target variables in the equation determining if the target is positive or negative if the target is positive generating a negative plain language expression of the target otherwise generating a positive plain language expression of the target for each variable in the list of positive non target variables generating a plain language statement of system condition for each variable in the list of negative non target variables generating a plain language statement of omitted condition generating a compound statement of system conditions by joining together the statements of system condition using a first logical operator between each of the statements of system condition the first logical operator being and and generating a compound statement of system omitted conditions by joining together the statements of system omitted condition using a second logical operator between each of the statements of system omitted condition the second logical operator being or .

Preferred embodiments of the present invention may also provide a method of representing the real life problem situation in the form of the unsatisfiable system of boolean equations. In these embodiments the user concepts a.k.a. Functions may be modeled as boolean variables taking truth values TRUE Function happens and FALSE Function does not happen and the cause effect and means goals relations between the functions may be modeled by boolean equations comprising the system of boolean equations.

Additionally preferred embodiments of the present invention include a method of expressing cause effect and means goals relations between the foregoing functions as links is required for causes eliminates impedes and their syntactical variations. These links may be interpreted as the boolean equations as follows A is required for B interpreted as A or not B A causes B interpreted as not A or B A eliminates B interpreted as A or B A impedes B interpreted as not A or not B where a star represents a special target marker that is put on the function located on a particular side on the link. This marker may be used in wording formulation.

Still other preferred embodiments of the present invention include a method of expressing user requirements to the solution in the form of one sided links must achieve and must eliminate and their syntactical variations. These links may be interpreted as boolean equations as follows must achieve X interpreted as X or not GOAL must eliminate X interpreted as not X or not GOAL where GOAL is a special artificially added function and star represents the special target marker.

Still other preferred embodiments of the present invention include a method of expressing the natural state of a problem situation in the form of one sided links always and never and their syntactical variations. These one sided links may be interpreted as boolean equations as follows always X interpreted as X never X interpreted as not X .

Other preferred embodiments of the present invention include a method of expressing multi function interactions in the form of the function lists located on the non target side of the link and connection using conjunctions with or and or and . These functions may list as boolean equations as follows A with A with . . . with A is required for B interpreted as A or not B and A or not B and . . . and A or not B and A or A or . . . or A is required for B interpreted as A or A or . . . or A or not B .

Further preferred embodiments of the present invention disclose a method of interpreting user statements having the same target function as boolean equations as follows A is required for T . B impedes T . interpreted as A or not T and not B or not T and A causes T . B eliminates T . interpreted as not A or B or T .

The foregoing methods of the foregoing various embodiments may include a step of interpreting the user statements of more complex forms by reducing them to forms described for such embodiments using publicly known transformations of the boolean formulas. The methods of the foregoing various embodiments may further include a step of adding a special equation GOAL to the system of boolean equations constructed by such methods.

Finally any of the previously described methods may include the step of generating wordings for the solutions based on the relaxations of the unsatisfiable system of boolean equations constructed by such methods such relaxations transforming the unsatisfiable system of boolean equations into the satisfiable one. These methods may include a further step consisting of converting the unsatisfiable system of boolean equations into the Conjunctive Normal Form CNF and using this equivalent system to find the relaxations.

These and other aspects of the subject invention will become more readily apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art from the following detailed description of the invention taken in conjunction with the drawings described herein.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the present invention may be embodied as a method data processing system or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code means embodied in the medium. Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized including hard disks CD ROMs optical storage devices a transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet or magnetic storage devices.

As used herein program modules software modules and like references indicate logical program units and do not necessarily indicate structurally discreet structures. The modules disclosed herein may be combined and or further separated without departing from the inventive aspects of the present invention. Furthermore the invention may be practiced in distributed computing environments wherein modules reside and or are executed on several processing devices. In such a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

The logical flow of preferred embodiments of the present invention is depicted in and attention is directed to those figures in connection with the following discussion.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the problem system is modeled as an unsatisfiable boolean formula in conjunctive normal form abbreviated CNF as described in greater detail below. The solutions are sought as relaxations of the original formula. If removing a term from the CNF makes the remainder CNF satisfiable then this removed term is regarded as a solution and undergoes the wording formulation in negated form. To facilitate entering the boolean formula the end user syntax is augmented with the keywords always never must achieve and must eliminate which are absent from previously known systems and methods. The present invention also allows for expressing alternatives using the or keyword also absent from previously known systems and methods.

Embodiments of the present invention need not begin analysis of systems with descriptions in CNF but must convert non CNF descriptions to CNF that is users need not input problems in CNF form as certain embodiments of the present invention will convert input to CNF form . The use of CNF has several advantages including the input statements can be almost literally converted into the pieces of the CNF when utilizing the user language syntax previously describe and Robinson s Resolution technique described below is specifically targeted to systems expressed in CNF.

As a first step the system constructs a boolean representation for a problem to be analyzed and solved. In this step each statement of the overall problem as provided by a user. The system analyzes the representations thus provided and extracts therefrom linked boolean functions also called boolean variables which combine to provide a relation between the truth of each such function or variable. By way of example the user input statement Bacteria in the air causes damage of medication may be analyzed to yield two boolean variables namely bacteria in air and damage of medication . Thus Bacteria in the air 1 would mean that bacteria is actually present in the air while Bacteria in the air 0 would mean that they are in fact absent. In that regard the user input statement above yields the relation between the truth values of these two variables. This relation may be stated using traditional if then constructs such as if Bacteria in the air 1 then Damage of medication must be 1. 

Alternatively the relation may be stated in boolean form as Bacteria in the air Damage of medication where the caret symbol signifies a not condition i.e. the opposite of the boolean statement and the pipe symbol signifies a logical or . The alternative statement of the relation may be worded as ALWAYS TRUE THAT EITHER NOT Bacteria in the air OR OTHERWISE Damage of medication . Using the boolean statement form the system of the present invention may represent several link types as depicted in Table 8 below.

As will be readily understood by those of skill in the art a system may be modeled by a series of related formulas which must be solved simultaneously in order to solve the problem of the system. Where such a series of formulas is incapable of simultaneous solution the system problem is said to be unsolvable. By way of example one may consider the system of an ore melting furnace having a system problem of furnace explosion caused by melting ore in the furnace and the desired outcome of producing metal by melting ore. The system may be modeled by the series of functions depicted in Tables 9 12 below including the desired outcome also called the system s goal in the latter two tables.

One of ordinary skill in the art will quickly recognize that the system of formulas depicted in Table 12 is unsatisfiable simultaneously and therefore the system problem is also unsolvable. This conclusion may be confirmed through well known analysis methodologies such as Robinson s Resolution.

As the foregoing discussion illustrates a problem if modeled correctly will necessarily result in an unsatisfiable set of boolean equations. This represents the user s belief that the problem at hand cannot be resolved in any normal or known or available ways. Thus the search for an innovative solutions is warranted. The innovative solutions in turn would necessarily involve violations of some of the equations thus producing the directions that would be unexpected by the user. The present invention discloses an algorithm that builds these violations as will be discussed in greater detail presently.

Because the formulation of a system problem is built in the conjunctive normal form CNF embodiments of the present invention analyze the CNF system of formulas in an attempt to relax the system by dropping a term of CNF i.e. dropping at least one formula from the system . If the resulting set of equations i.e. the set with a term removed proves to be satisfiable then the dropped formula represents the constraint that needs to be violated . This term is thus used to formulate an appropriate wording of a system problem s solution. If on the other hand the resulting set of equations remains unsatisfiable then the removed formula is considered irrelevant to the system problem. Such irrelevant formulas result in no wording and are ignored for purposes of solving the system problem represented by the set of equations.

In executing the step of formulate a wording from term T in the method of Table 13 the present invention must determine which wording to use from among several possible wordings. To choose the correct one the present invention analyzes the cause effect and means goals relations expressed by the user and inherently embodied in the system of equations. Every equation may be considered designate one variable in it to be a target that is an effect experienced by or in the system being modeled.

Referring to the set of equations depicted in Table 12 one will recognize the variables in the right hand column each may be considered an effect experienced by or in the system at issue. These particular variables constitute the targets in the equations. One of skill in the art will readily understand that the designation of a variable as a target does not impact the manner in which the variable is treated for any boolean purposes the target designation is only considered at the present stage of word form formulation. One of skill in the art will also readily understand that there has been no target designation in the final equation of the equation set depicted in Table 12 as this term had been added only to signify the desired ultimate outcome and so no formulation is desired for it.

The wording for each term will be the negated form of the term that is if a term is positive the system of the present invention will generate a negative plain language expression of the term otherwise it will generate a positive plain language expression of the term. Thus by way of example if a target term is A negative the system of the present invention will generate a wording such as find a way to ACHIEVE A . Similarly if a non target term reads as B positive then the system of the present invention will generate a wording such as . . . that would not require B . Such a statement may be called a statement of system omitted condition because it states a condition that is not required by the system i.e. a condition omitted from the system. Finally if a non target term reads as C negative then the system of the present invention will generate a wording such as . . . under the condition of C . Such a statement may be called a statement system condition because it states a condition of the system that is or is assumed to be present.

The method of formulating appropriate wording thus described may be summarized as shown in Table 14 below.

Applying this method to the system detailed in Table 12 above one may drop the first equation i.e. Melting Ore Getting Metal yielding a wording of find a way to achieve Getting Metal that would not require Melting Ore . 

Preferred embodiments of the present invention can also model system problems having multiple function relationships between variables such as where two or more variables must be present concurrently to cause a particular outcome or where the presence of one of two or more variables causes a particular outcome.

By way of example of the former multiple relationship i.e one where multiple variables must be present one may consider the problem Flammable gas with Spark causes Explosion which may be rewritten as the boolean formula of Table 15 below.

Next as an example of the latter multiple relationship i.e. one where the presence of at least one of a group of variables is required for a particular outcome one may consider the problem Carbon dioxide or Water is required for Quenching a fire which may be rewritten as the boolean formula of Table 17.

A more complicated example of the foregoing may be illustrated by the user statement Some time ago there was a problem that heating the ampule was causing the medication overheat and damage. The problem was solved by freezing the medication in advance so that its temperature would not go as high while sealing the ampule. This statement may be converted to the statement system shown in Table 18 including the presumed desire for treatment and the inability of damaged medication to provide treatment.

Applying this analysis to the causes links from Table 18 i.e. the first four equations one gets Medication Damaged medication Treatment . After applying Morgan s Law one is left with Medication AND Damaged medication Treatment which may be alternatively expressed through the application of the distribution law as Medication Treatment AND Damaged medication Treatment . 

In the foregoing example it is important to note that because the statements that require such special treatment may be spread over the source of a user s description a direct one pass translation of the source into the CNF may not be possible. Instead the source may first need to be converted into an intermediate representation where each target e.g. Treatment would be associated with the lists of the appropriate non targets e.g. Medication and Damaged medication . Then pieces of the CNF can be generated based on the combinations of the link types that connect the target with its non targets in each case.

With the above discussion in mind one may consider the following examples of a system relate problem analyzed and solved by an embodiment of the present invention.

First one introduces a plain language description of the system and associated problem Metal is extracted from ore by melting it in a high temperature furnace. To cool down the brick walls of the furnace water is pumped through the pipes enclosed within the walls. If a pipe cracks water gushes through the brick wall into the hot furnace resulting in furnace explosion. The system of the present invention may initially transform this description yielding the restatement depicted in Table 19 below.

Embodiments of the present invention may also analyze and solve system problems which include alternative chains for example the system modeled in Table 22.

Finally one may consider the real world example of During the internal surgery sponges are used to stop the blood and other body fluids from running through the area. When the surgery is done the sponges need to be removed. However doctors and the surgical team staff are unable to see the sponges well inside the patient after they are covered with the body fluids. They also miscount the number of sponges as they take them out. Thus while they think that all of the sponges are accounted for some may actually still be inside of the patient. If they are left inside they usually cause medical problems later. 

The method disclosed in Table 13 above attempts to drop each CNF term in turn analyzing after each drop turn to determine whether the resulting equation set results in a satisfiable formula. This algorithm removes a single CNF term at a time it does not drop multiple CNF terms at any single step.

Certain system problems cannot be solved by such an approach and so other preferred embodiments of the present invention extended the algorithm of Table 13 to also search for pairs triples etc. of terms to drop. These complex relaxations i.e. relaxations created by concurrently dropping multiple CNF terms can be defined as the subsets of the CNF terms with the following properties A dropping these terms from the original unsatisfiable CNF would result in the new CNF that will be satisfiable and B no proper subset of a complex relaxation would produce a satisfiable CNF.

One method of constricting such complex relaxations of the instant invention starts with the single term subsets as in the method disclosed in Table 13 . Those CNF terms satisfy property A i.e. they represent simple relaxations and such CNF terms are stored for use in further analysis of subsequent iterations of the present method. The next iteration generates all the two term subsets and eliminate those containing any of the previously stored sets. This comparison with previously stored sets ensures that the new subsets satisfy property B . The algorithm depicted in Table 26 below illustrates this embodiment of the present invention

Visual representation of the cause effect and means goals relations facilitates use of the instant invention and renders is more intuitive for users. Although the present embodiment departs from the graph based approach a different visual representation can be devised to capture a user s input. A graphical user interface a GUI can be developed allowing for creation of the diagrams resembling for instance those commonly used for rendering depicting electronics circuitry. Such GUI would then essentially replace the step of syntactical processing of the user input described above. Although the interface may take any particular form diagramming tools such as Microsoft Corp. s Visio product may be used given an appropriate integration application programming interface to extract and process the user description from diagrams generated in such tools.

With the use of the diagram as the input media much of the syntactical restrictions of the present embodiments may be eliminated thus allowing for a much more complex relations to be expressed in a concise and clear manner. This would necessitate an extra step in processing to convert the arbitrary boolean formula from the diagram into the CNF form which may be readily accomplished by those of ordinary skill in the art using well known algorithms.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the pertinent art that changes and modifications may be made without departing from the invention in its broader aspects.

