---

title: Media enhancement mechanism using embed code
abstract: A method to provide additional media objects for data objects containing one or more existing media objects is described. The existing media object is analyzed to determine additional related media available on the network, and the data object description is augmented with metadata to identify the additional media in an enhanced data object description. When the enhanced data object is rendered, the metadata facilitates incorporation of additional media objects in the displayed page.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08290929&OS=08290929&RS=08290929
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08290929
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071026
---
The present disclosure relates generally to creation distribution and consumption of multimedia content over interactive networks.

Users communicating over a network typically use a physical device such as a cell phone a personal digital assistant PDA a smart phone a networked music video player a personal computer or a public terminal to interconnect and share information with other users on the network. These networked devices provide an increased ability to compose and consume information and to interact socially through the sharing of information. This disclosure relates generally to an improved mechanism for composing sharing disseminating and consuming various types of information among interconnected users.

The shared information is perceived by a consuming user consumer . The consumer perceives information conveyed through various forms of media objects including text icons voice audio recordings pictures or videos. Descriptions of one or more forms of media objects may be combined in a data object which the consumer accesses over the network. The data object may contain additional metadata information which is not typically observed by the consumer but may instead define parameters useful in conveying information to the consumer such as user identifiers data beaters data types or data interpretation resources as described below. Metadata may combine one of more specialized categories of metadata such as a meta identifier a meta keyword and so on.

The consumer experiences a virtual reality stimulated by a plethora of multimedia information. As opposed to the real world where social interactions often depend on physical characteristics of the communicator in a virtual social network the composing user composer is limited only by his ability to stimulate others through the sharing of information. Composers on networks are currently able to perform social functions which are analogous to their real world counter parts such as to compose mail to write diaries or to publish original works or compositions of other works all in electronic form over the network.

Modem computer networks are typically hierarchical transmission networks with multiple layers of transmission protocols. A transmission network is a system that allows two or more transceivers to exchange data whereas a transmission protocol is a sequence of standard interactive steps that facilitate the exchange. Typically the lowest level protocols are more concretely tied to the interaction of physical circuitry whereas higher levels of protocols are more abstract to facilitate higher level processing at an algorithmic level. For example in the vernacular the web also known as the Internet has become shorthand for a multi layer computer communications system which combines higher level protocols for access mid level protocols such as a means of locating resources available on the network using a system of uniform resource locaters URLs and low level hardware transmission control protocol internet protocols TCP IP which control the exchange of large uneven blocks of data by breaking them into smaller standardized packets. The network user seeks improved means to gather information compose new information and share that information with other users without the burden of managing lower level protocols or learning new programming languages.

In the context of a computer network a server is physically one or more computer systems connected to the network containing a set of one or more central processing units CPUs and support circuitry operative to execute a sequence of one or more processor instructions to process data. A sequence of one or more processor instructions for a particular purpose or application is known as an application program. Physical circuitry in a server typically includes one or more CPUs a plurality of interfaces for inputting application programs and data a plurality of memories for storing programs and data a plurality of interfaces for outputting programs and data and a plurality of transceivers for exchanging data and commands with other servers. Data may be organized in storage to facilitate efficient processing such as by storing the data in a database consisting of a collection of data indexed by relationships between the various forms of data contained therein. A virtual server consists of a set of one or more servers interconnected hierarchically to perform high level functions as combined functions of several servers under central control.

Functionally a server executes a sequence of low level CPU commands to complete instructions for processing data. A server typically accepts instructions and executes commands for a multitude of remote clients . The instructions may include but are not limited to instructions to store or retrieve data to modify verify or erase data or to reorganize data. The server may also initiate instructions for other network attached devices. For example a virtual music server might maintain a database to locate a library of musical compositions. The music server might receive commands to store new songs or retrieve old ones from a number of clients. Further the music server might send commands to other devices on the network e.g. to disseminate the musical database among various subservient servers such as a jazz server a hip hop server a classical server and so on to register paying user requests in a billing server to verify the identity preferences and access privileges of a user in a registration server and so on. The music server may therefore also be a client of other servers. Practitioners of the art will recognize that servers and clients are abstract interactive devices controlled by software instructions whose interaction protocols may be flexibly defined. A client as used herein may include functionally to process information and programs as well as to issue commands. Similarly a server as used herein may include functionally to initiate commands to user device s and other servers as well as to respond to instructions.

Similarly a database should not be construed to be a single physical collection of data. As used herein a database is an abstract collection of data. Said data may be stored physically within a single or multiple servers within attached physical device s network attached device s or user devices s . Similarly an application program should not be construed to be a single physical collection of commands. As used herein an application program is an abstract collection of computer readable commands which may be physically executed in whole or in part within a single or multiple servers within attached physical devices s within network attached device s or within user device s 

A network user utilizes a number of application programs to create or consume content on the network. Example application programs include a browser an e mail client a blog client and a media object player. 

A browser is an application program that is generally intended to display multimedia content. The browser typically displays the multimedia content in a virtual book format typically displayed as one or more individually framed web pages along with means for navigating to other related web pages. A web page is typically a two dimensional image appearing as an individual page of information including one or more types of associated media objects. A web page may also be associated with consumer perceived audio output. Data for web pages is often described in a format known as a Document Object Model DOM .

The multimedia content may be directly perceived on the web page or may be indirectly accessible. Content on the page may be directly perceived by including displayed images videos or a media object player rendered within the image of the page. Examples of indirect access include access to an audio recording through background music access through an auxiliary page or pop up window access through an auxiliary program such as Microsoft s Windows Media Player or access provided through a link to another page. Many web pages incorporate one or more hot links. The hot link enables a consumer to access another web page or another application by pointing to and clicking on the hot link using a computer input pointing device such as a mouse. Consumers typically have the ability to reject the web page or additional media offering s through controls in the browser user interface such as by clicking on a close box using the mouse to remove or close a displayed window image.

A network user may also become a composer to create new web pages. The DOM for a web page is typically stored in a data file using a common programming language such as Hyper Text Markup Language HTML . The composer may compose the web page directly by creating a description in the common programming language or may compose the web page indirectly using an application program to combine text descriptions and other media into a page description in HTML or another suitable language. A composer may further combine one or more web pages to create a website. A website may be self contained in that it consists solely of web pages created for that site and a means for navigating among the contained web pages. More commonly a website contains a combination of composer generated content as well as links to other content or applications on the web. Typically the composer may review a new web page or website composition on his computer using his browser. The composer may also disseminate the new web page or website to other users on the network by publishing his page

To use the web server to publish a page the composer typically registers with a service provider such as Yahoo Geocities . Composers who wish to enhance a web page with media content other than text typically complete a cumbersome process of locating and incorporating the content. When the web pages are published the composer and service provider may be exposed to legal liability for incorporating copyrighted or inappropriate content. Although the composer or service provider could potentially license the copyrighted content transaction costs may be too high for individual composers.

In addition the composing user may not have the same access privileges as a consuming user. For example the composer may have a subscription service to an internet service provider which licenses the downloading of music files. A consumer on the network accessing the composition may not have the same subscription based privileges. The composer seeks to provide additional media content for any consumer without the burden of determining consumer access privileges.

A popular form of web page for individual users is an online diary known as a web log or blog. The blog composer is also known as a blogger. The blogger typically provides a textual description of personal experiences and shares them with other network users of the network in a sequence of blog pages. Although the blogger desires to enhance blog pages with related media content to create a multimedia experience for the blog consumer he or she faces similar difficulties to those encountered by other web page composers. As a result bloggers typically use the services of a standardized blog composition and display service provider such as Yahoo 360 Blog . Standardized blog composition services give composers limited control over their compositions. These limitations may include limited access to embeddable media limited varieties of page composition and limited access to embeddable media object players. Composers generally are limited to locating related media content on their own. In addition blog displays on a sen ice provider are typically limited to one scrollable page per user are accessible only to other users of the service provider and the service provider controls the overall composition of the website.

Art e mail client typically has the option of accessing electronic mail through a specialized e mail client application or a general purpose web browser application. Either application allows a user to compose mail messages as well as to consume messages. E mail messages typically consist of text and optionally include one or more instances of user attached media objects. The e mail messages are typically stored in data objects including text and optionally HTML. To use e mail the network user typically registers with an e mail service provider such as Yahoo Mail . The service provider typically maintains a virtual e mail server for its various service customers use with e mail client software. The e mail server provides a facility for e mail clients to authenticate themselves and interact with the appropriate subservient server. Users who wish to enhance their e mails with media objects other than text typically complete a cumbersome process of locating attaching and uploading the additional content for the enhanced e mail.

As mentioned previously a consumer may use an auxiliary program to perceive media objects such as the Windows Media Player available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. the RealPlayer from RealNetworks Inc. of Seattle Wash. or the QuickTime player from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. Each of these players is able to process a variety of data file formats describing media objects. Example data file formats include JPEG TIFF or PIC format data files for photographs WAV MP3 or AIFF format data files for audio recordings and AVI MPEG or H.264 format data files for video recordings. The consumer typically locates and accesses a media object described in a suitable format for his or her auxiliary program. If the media object is not directly available in a suitable format the consumer may convert the media object file format to a suitable format using conversion software such as Harmony Technology from RealNetworks Inc.

When the media object is a recording the typical media object player has a user control interface akin to that of a tape recorder with user controls to play pause fast forward reverse and so on. The consumer is typically able to process one media object at any time in the player. If the user is currently perceiving a music video of a particular artist but decides instead to seek a similar music video of a different artist for example the consumer must perform a number of steps to pause or end the currently playing video locate the related video and wait while an initial portion of the video is accessed by the auxiliary program. The consumer seeks more media object choices automated methods of locating those choices and access to located choices more immediately.

A media enhancement mechanism for users of computer networks is described. A network composer accesses the services of an enhancement service provider to obtain one or more embed codes that can be used to enhance a data object containing at least one reference to a media object by providing additional media objects. The service provider additionally provides an enhancement mechanism for insetting the embed codes in data objects. When the composer supplies a data object description the enhancement mechanism modifies the description to produce an enhanced data object description with additional computer code contained as metadata in the modified description. When consumers access an enhanced data object the embed code is operative to relate one or more referenced media objects in the data object to one or more additional media objects and to push the additional media object offerings to the attention of the consumer. An appropriate representation of each additional media object offering is provided. Representations of the additional media object offerings are combined in one or more immediate alternatives as they become available to the consumer and thereby create more opportunities for immediate consumption on the network.

The following embodiments and aspects thereof are described and illustrated in conjunction with systems apparatuses and methods which are meant to be exemplary and illustrative not limiting in scope. In various embodiments one or more of the above described problems have been reduced or eliminated.

The following description sets forth numerous details to provide a thorough understanding of various aspects of the present invention. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances algorithms for processing data and symbolic representations of algorithmic operations are the terms used by those skilled in the art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm as used herein is a sequence of operations leading to a desired result said operations requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of a sequence of electrical signals representing binary numbers which can be stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated.

The present invention also relates to apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise one or more general purpose computers selectively activated by one or more computer programs to achieve the required results. Such a computer program may be stored in any suitable computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form that is usable by a machine such as a general purpose computer.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used in accordance with the teachings herein and it may prove expedient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the algorithm operations. The required structure for a variety of these systems may appear from the description below. In addition the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the invention as described herein.

Server systems described herein can be implemented by a variety of computer systems and architectures. illustrates suitable components in an exemplary embodiment of a general purpose computer system. The exemplary embodiment is only one example of suitable components and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Neither should the configuration of components be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary embodiment of a computer system. The invention may be operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computer system environments or configurations.

The invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and so forth which perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in local and or remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing the invention may include a general purpose computer system . Computer system accesses one or more applications and peripheral drivers directed to a number of functions described herein. Components of the computer system may include but are not limited to a CPU or central processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . As used by those skilled in the art a signal bus refers to a plurality of digital signal lines serving a common function. The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus. Enhanced ISA EISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus PCI Express bus PCI X and Accelerated Graphics Port AGP bus.

An operating system manages the operation of computer system including the input and output of data to and from applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the applications being executed on the system and the components of the system. According to one embodiment of the present invention the operating system is a Windows 95 98 NT XP Vista operating system available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. However the present invention may be used with other suitable operating systems such as an OS X operating system available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. a UNIX operating system or a LINUX operating system.

The computer system may include a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer system and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media. For example computer readable media may include volatile and nonvolatile computer storage media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disk ROM CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic tape cassettes magnetic tape hard magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices floppy disk storage devices magnetic diskettes or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by the computer system .

Communication media may also embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. For instance communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared cellular networks and other wireless media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer system such as during start up is typically stored in ROM and other non volatile storage such as flash memory. Additionally system memory may contain some or all of the operating system the application programs other executable code and program data . Memory typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by CPU . Optionally a CPU may contain a cache memory unit for temporary local storage of instructions data or computer addresses.

The computer system may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a bulk storage that reads from or writes to one or more magnetic disk drives of non removable nonvolatile magnetic media and storage device that may be an optical disk drive or a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable a nonvolatile storage medium such as an optical disk or a magnetic disk. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary computer system include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. Bulk storage and the storage device may be connected directly to the system bus or alternatively may be connected through an interface such as storage controller shown for bulk storage . Storage devices may interface to computer system through a general computer bus such as or may interconnect with a storage controller over a storage optimized bus such as the Small Computer System Interface SCSI bus the ANSI ATA ATAPI bus the Ultra ATA bus the Fire Wire IEEE 1394 bus or the Serial ATA SATA bus.

The storage devices and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions executable code data structures program modules and other data for the computer system . In for example bulk storage is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other executable code and program data . As mentioned previously data and computer instructions in may be transferred to system memory to facilitate immediate CPU access from processor . Alternatively processor may access stored instructions and data by interacting directly with bulk storage . Furthermore bulk storage may be alternatively provided by a network attached storage device not shown which is accessed through a network interface .

A user may enter commands and information into the computer system through the network interface or through an input device such as a keyboard a pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse a trackball a touch pad tablet a controller an electronic digitizer a microphone an audio input interface or a video input interface. Other input devices may include a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner and so forth. These and other input devices are often connected to CPU through an input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port a game port or a universal serial bus USB . A display or other type of video device may also be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a graphics controller and a video interface . In addition an output device such as headphones speakers or a printer may be connected to the system bus through an output interface or the like.

The computer system may operate in a networked environment using a network to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a terminal a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer system . The network depicted in may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or other type of network. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet. In a networked environment executable code and application programs may be stored in the remote computer. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote executable code as residing on remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Collectively these elements are intended to represent a broad category of computer systems including but not limited to general purpose computer systems based on a member of the x86 family of CPUs manufactured by Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. and the x86 compatible CPUs manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices AMD Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. as well as any other suitable processor. Of course other implementations are possible. For example the server functionalities described herein may be implemented by a plurality of server sub systems communicating over a backplane.

Various components of computer system may be rearranged deleted . or augmented. For example system bus. may be implemented as a plurality of busses interconnecting various subsystems of the computer system. Furthermore computer system may contain additional signal busses or interconnections between existing components such as by adding a direct memory access unit not shown to allow one or more components to more efficiently access system memory . Computer system further comprises storage device s coupled to storage interface coupled to bus .

As shown CACHE and CPU are packed together as processor module with processor CPU referred to as the processor core. Alternatively cache memories contained in may be separate components on the system bus. Furthermore certain embodiments of the present invention may not require nor include all of the above components. For example some embodiments may include a smaller number of CPUs a smaller number of network ports a smaller number of storage devices or a smaller number of input output interlaces. Furthermore computer system may include additional components such as one or more additional central processing units such as storage devices memories or interfaces. As discussed below in one implementation operations of one or more of the physical servers described herein is implemented as a series of software routines executed by computer system . Each of the software routines comprises a plurality or series of machine instructions to be executed by one or more components in the computer system such as CPU . Initially the series of instructions may be stored on a storage device such as bulk storage . However the series of instructions may be stored in an EEPROM a flash device or a DVD. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote computer or a server on a network via network interface .

Computer system is contained within the network site where one or more computer systems such as computer system are connected to a local area network and router . The router manages local computer communication traffic in network site and interconnects with network cloud . Router also functions to translate one or more local area network addresses in network site to provide one or more unique corresponding wide area network addresses in order to facilitate communication between computer systems in network site and other computer systems on the wide area network.

Content aggregation sites are represented by content site A and content site B in . Content is stored as digital data objects which may include media objects or executable code objects. Content site A is a network addressable system that allows users to access media objects supplied by one or more users. In one implementation content site A may be a media object aggregation or sharing system such as Yahoo Flickr photo sharing site and similar variants. Content site A comprises one or more physical server systems implemented using an architecture such as that of computer system and containing or connected to one or more bulk storage systems such as that of bulk storage system or a network attached storage device not shown and a local area network and router . The one or more physical servers allow users to upload and download media objects. In one implementation the functionality hosted by the one or more physical servers may include web or HTTP servers FTP servers and the like.

Content site B is a network addressable system that allows users to access content supplied by one of more content suppliers not shown . Content site B comprises one or more physical server systems containing or connected to one or more bulk storage systems not shown and a local area network and router . The one or more physical servers allow the service provider not shown to store media objects and users to download media objects.

Network application site B is a network addressable system that allows users to access one or more executable code objects supplied by one or more service providers not shown . Network application site B comprises one or more physical server systems containing or connected to one or more bulk storage systems shown as network attached storage device and a local area network and router . Executable code objects may include code to be executed on a user device as well as code executed within a server system such as server . An example of an executable code object is an informational web site where users request and receive identified web pages and other content over the network cloud . The executable code object may also be a posting forum where users may submit or otherwise configure media objects to be perceived by other users. The executable code object may also be a social network application such as a chat engine or e mail host. The executable code object may also be a blogging or web posting application allowing users to configure and maintain personal web pages. One or more executable code objects may also combine to form a content distribution application that displays available media objects and transmits them to users. Examples of network application sites include Yahoo Musk Engine Apple iTunes and podcasting servers.

In media object aggregation or sharing systems such as the Yahoo Flickr photo sharing site media objects are typically contained in data objects which also contain metadata related to the media object. For example a data object containing a media object may also contain one or more meta keywords to identity related media objects. A photo sharer may upload a photo to a photo sharing site and consider the photo related to a set of keywords such as artists musicians drummers and teen idols. The photo sharer may further configure the media object by combining the media object with the set of related meta parameters in a data object.

A content creator on the network may incorporate the shared photo in a composition by various means. The photo may be copied into the composition by downloading the photo description file and inserting it into the composed data object. In one embodiment of the invention a content site such as Flickr may supply an embed code that makes a media server request for the media object when the embed code is accessed and executed by a user application such as a browser. As discussed below the media object access code may be obtained from the content site and copied pasted into the composed data object. In a second alternative embodiment an enhancement code mechanism described below inserts the embed code in the composed data object. In a fourth alternative embodiment the embed code for the photo may include the media object access code as well as instructions to make one or more server requests for additional related media objects obtained by execution of a media server executable code.

The registration process authenticates returning users by scanning input to an online login form to determine if the login ID resides in the user database in step . If not an ID error is transmitted and processing continues at step . Once a user has been properly identified user preferences are retrieved from storage in step . The user preferences may relate to one or more parameters or attributes of the operation of the enhancement mechanism. For example the user preferences may include parameters that bias or control selection of photographic media objects over video audio media objects. In step registration server retrieves and in some instances dynamically generates a set of appropriate embed and enhancing codes and transmits the codes to a user device in step . The output of the service registration process is operative to provide a media enhancement mechanism where the user may insert the embed code in underlying content such as an HTML page. For dynamically generated code the server may dynamically add a meta user identifier to the code as well as one or more user preferences. These meta parameters can be used to bias the selection of media as described below to allow for composer personalization.

The enhancing code is operative to facilitate the enhancement mechanism for composer applications. The composition enhancement mechanism consists of inserting one or more embed code sections in association with one or more existing media object references contained in data objects such as HTML pages. In one implementation the output of the registration process is limited to a set of embed code sections which the user can copy and paste into data object descriptions. In an alternate implementation an enhancing software code module may assist the user in inserting embed code sections during composition of data objects. The enhancing software code module may be provided in various forms as described below fire enhancing code is operative to facilitate the composition enhancement mechanism by assisting the user in inserting embed code in the data object by providing additional functionality to a composer application.

Embed code may take many forms. For example the embed code may be high level computer language source code such as HTML code or low level computing machine instructions. Embed code may also include or link to one or more scripts such as JavaScript expressing functions that are included from HTML code. One or more sections of the embed code may contain a script or calls to retrieve a script that dynamically generates one or more aspects of the enhanced data object or other content provided when the embed code is executed.

When a consumer accesses an enhanced page script functions can interact with the Document Object Model DOM of the page to perform one or more tasks. Scripts may also be used to make service requests to remote servers alter an HTML page has loaded. These requests can obtain new information or data as well as load or launch additional applications e.g. media object players content viewers application plug ins or software codes. Script code can merge with the DOM of the underlying page so that one or more additional media objects are displayed or otherwise rendered on the page. Alternatively the script code may initiate one or more additional pages or other rendering for the additional media object s . When embed code is inserted into an HTML document and subsequently accessed by a client application the client application may retrieve and execute the script. The script optionally using the parameter values in the embed code may initiate service requests to one or more remote servers to retrieve and render one or more media objects that enhance the underlying content of the page. For example the script when executed may cause the client application to query media server described below to retrieve one or more media objects and then cause a client application to render the retrieved media object s .

In addition the script may access the DOM of the underlying HTML page to extract and process information. For example as illustrates the script may process the data of the underlying HTML page to extract media objects and related text of the page and provide it to media server . The script could also perform additional operations. For example the script could process the data of the HTML page filtering out extraneous information such as the a and and the like and transmit only the relevant media selection information when querying for media objects for page enhancement. In addition the script may access the DOM to identify the server identified in one possible implementation by uniform resource locater that hosts the underlying HTML page.

Another way to detect underlying or theme information of a data object is to read the metadata in the data object in an automated way. In an alternative implementation the script may extract one or more meta parameters that may be useful for example to select one or more media objects. For example a photographic media object may include additional information about the photograph in one or more meta tags in the metadata. An example meta tag includes . A mechanism for automatically retrieving information in the data object is known as a page scraping mechanism. The page scraping mechanism retrieves text in metadata as well as user composed text. Retrieved text is used to determine a page theme using technology for determining semantic meaning. Metadata as provided by the user or a media object supplier would be valuable to understand the theme of the data object. Using this information and the text content of the page a semantic engine may select one or more relevant topics from a dictionary and may select one or more relevant media objects to enhance the page.

In addition the enhancement mechanisms disclosed may employ a categorization tool to characterize data object text or metadata. Categories can be associated with one or more keywords. For example a meta tag containing photography and text describing the Grand Canyon may be characterized as a category of photographs that came from Arizona and may be associated with a keyword entitled ArizonaPics. As another example a user sharing a media object representing a photograph of the performing artist Sheila E might associate the media object with a keyword entitled Prince the name of another performing artist who often employs Sheila E.

In addition the enhancement mechanisms disclosed may employ mechanisms for consumer personalization. When a network information consumer accesses a data object using a browser for example script code may access consumer identifiers in a consumer cookie or some other consumer data file The cookie or data file is a data object containing one or more meta parameters specific to the consumer. By accessing the consumer s meta parameters an embed code may optionally include instructions to bias the selection of media to include consumer preferences and or consumer access privileges in a service request.

After registration embed code can be provided to the user as displayed text as a displayed HTML page or may be stored in a text or other data file. After the user has been provided displayed embed code the user may save the embed code in a text or other data file or load the embed code in a buffer with a copy operation such as by highlighting the text and entering Ctrl C to copy the highlighted text in a buffer in the Windows operating environment. The user may insert the embed code into one or more data objects such as HTML pages in a variety of circumstances. For example when configuring a blog post a user may paste the embed code into the HTML code of the blog page. Blog posting and other network application interfaces typically include an edit HTML tab that allows a user to directly edit the HTML code of the blog post. The embed code may be incorporated into a variety of data objects. Indeed a blog post represents one of many possible forms of social media in connection with which the content embedding code can be used. For example the embed code may be incorporated into personal pages on social networking sites such as MySpace.com Facebook Yahoo 360 and the like. The embed code may also be used in other contexts. For example the embed code may be entered into a thread on a public forum site. Still further a webmaster or other user may include the content embedding code into one or more pages of a web site such as a commercial news site e.g. cnn.com zdnet.com etc. 

The additional media content is rendered by execution of software on a user device . Keyboard shown in is connected to user device . User device executes embed code in the context of a user application such as a web browser. The service provider operates a virtual media server which maintains a database of media object descriptor files a database to reference relationships between media objects using media describing keywords and a database for media object preferences . The media object descriptor files may include one or more of descriptions of audio files descriptions of photographs descriptions of videos and or other media object descriptors. Server is operative to transmit one or more additional media objects to the user device in response to one or more embed code service requests. The additional media objects are transmitted in the form of one or more data descriptor files and optionally one or more software code modules for perceiving an additional media object.

For example a composer may create a data object containing a media object in the form of a description of an original photograph of a performing artist Prince. The enhancement service provider may locate an additional media object related to the original media object consisting of a photograph of performing artist Sheila E. User may perceive a page where the original photograph is rendered and the enhancement mechanism renders an additional media object consisting of a representation of the Sheila E photograph rendered as an alternative to the original photograph. The enhancement service provider may further locate additional media objects related to the original media object such as a photograph of another Prince Prince Harry. As more alternative media objects become available to the consumer representations of the additional media objects are rendered as consuming alternatives to the existing media object. This is illustrated in which consists of three parts labeled A B and C. Part A is an example display of the composer s original data object. Part B is an example of a modified display of the composer s original data object and a representation of a first additional media object offering after location of the first additional media object. Part C is an example of a further modified display of the composer s original data object and a representation of the first and a second additional media object offering after location of the second additional media object.

The user may perceive an additional media object in various representations. In one alternative the entire media object is rendered such as by providing an image of an entire photograph on a page on display . In a second alternative a compressed version of the additional media object is rendered on the display. In a third alternative a link to the additional media object is included on the display. In a fourth alternative the additional media object is associated with a media object player control interlace rendered on the display. For example an additional media object consisting of a photographic object may be displayed by a combination of these and other representations. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art these and various other means of display commonly create a perception of a representation of a photographic media object on a page.

In addition user may optionally be provided with one or more media object control interfaces to alter the display of the representation of the media object such as by resizing or rejecting a displayed photograph using one or more user application interface controls. Alternatively user perceives the representation of the media object and may optionally alter the representation using application interface controls to reject the representation or to view an alternative representation. User may optionally initiate additional service requests indicated by one or more links or by further interacting with the media object control interface.

For example Part C of may be associated with a photographic media object control interface operable through use of the user s pointing device typically a mouse. By using the mouse a user may identify an alternative media object by pointing at it such as by pointing at the thumbnail of Sheila E. By further clicking with the mouse on the alternative object s display the user may select a focus on the alternative media object instead of the original media object. In response an embedded script might swap the two photos replacing the larger Prince photograph with the larger Sheila E photograph and the Sheila E thumbnail with a thumbnail of the original Prince photograph. In a second alternate response the Sheila E photograph thumbnail may expand to a larger photograph for concurrent consumption of the two photos. In a third alternate response selection of the Sheila E thumbnail may result in the larger photograph of Sheila E taking center stage and initiating a search for new alternative media object offerings consisting of media objects most closely related to Sheila E.

Furthermore the representation of an alternative media object offering such as the thumbnail of Sheila E may link to an alternate type of media object as well. The alternative type of media object may be displayed with an alternative media object player control interface. For example the thumbnail of Sheila E may be a hot link to a video object player pre loaded with the beginning of a Sheila E music video. The additional media object player control interface may augment the original media object or alternatively may replace or modify the display of the original media object. For example a media object player to display a photograph might have pertinent controls to crop resize or change the color in the photograph whereas a video player might have pertinent controls to play pause fast forward or rewind playing of the video and a music player might have pertinent controls to play pause equalize or adjust the volume of the music. In one embodiment only those controls pertinent to the current media object selection are displayed. In an alternate embodiment all user controls appear but only those controls pertinent to the current media object selection are highlighted. In a third alternate embodiment a media object control interface optionally appears by a right clicking on the object. The right clicking is performed by the user by using a right click button on the user mouse.

As a consequence of these alternative representations and the user application interface controls user may not be able to view an entire additional media object on the page at all times. A particular space on the page may be reserved for a representation of the media object or the media object control interface. When user does not perceive the additional media object the space may be available to display one or more other media objects. For example user may be done viewing an additional media object consisting of a photograph in a certain space on the page and the space dedicated to all or part of the photographic image may be optionally replaced with one or more media objects provided by server .

As a second example a consumer in may perceive a data object containing an original music video. The consumer may perceive a corresponding video player with a control interface contained on a displayed page. The video player is operative to process a video object descriptor file a video object data stream or a title image to render a representation of the video. The consumer may be provided optional controls which may include a video player control interface to pause play rewind fast forward or reject the video media object. The enhancement mechanism renders a representation of an additional media object consisting of an alternative video object. An indication of the alternative video object offering is rendered on video output of display and or through audio output of transducer . In one embodiment of an enhanced media object player interface a thumbnail representing the alternative video is rendered on the video player interface. In a second alternate embodiment the photographic title image or another compressed representation of the video is rendered in another place on the consumer display. The consumer perceives the compressed representation of the alternative video and may optionally view the uncompressed alternative video or reject the compressed representation on the display. In a third alternate embodiment a link to the video is rendered on the page and the user may optionally perform a control action to perceive the video. If the user does not perceive the video at all times or the video data stream if any ends the space on the page dedicated to all or part of the video player may be optionally replaced with other media objects provided by server .

In a media object scanner function is operative in step to perform one or more of 1 resolving ambiguities in the referenced media object 2 associating the media object with a set of one or more likely media identifying phrases 3 associating one or more of the media identifying phrases with one or more media describing keywords and 4 prioritizing the associated keywords by ranking each such keyword.

As described above keywords for the referenced media object may be derived in various ways. The media object itself may be embedded along with pre assigned meta parameters including media identifying phrases or keywords. In one embodiment the embed code scrapes these meta parameters in the media scanner function. Alternatively the embed code associated with the referenced media object may be configured with media identifying phrases or keywords. In an alternate embodiment the embed code references a media object in a remote server in association with media identifying phrases or keywords which may be remotely accessed by a script invoked by the embed code. Optionally the media object input to the media scanner may contain media object scanner metadata with one or more preconfigured media identifying phrases keywords or rankings.

The media object scanner function is further operative to forward ranked keywords and a service request to a media tracker function in step . As mentioned previously the media object scanner function is a software routine that may be executed in whole or in part by executing instructions in a server system and by executing instructions for the remainder of the software routine if any in a user device 

In the media tracker function in step is operative to determine one or more data objects in a virtual media database to associate with the ranked keywords. The media tracker function may additionally utilize preferences and or access privileges of individual composers service providers multiple users and or individual consumers to bias the determination of appropriate media. The various preferences may be stored in a media ratings database such as of . Optionally the input to the media tracker function in step may already contain predetermined media identifiers in metadata. The media tracker function is further operative to forward appropriate media identifiers and a service request to a media server such as of . Optionally the media tracker function is operative to update the combined preferences of multiple users as described below.

In the media server is operative to transmit one or more additional media objects in step and if necessary one or more software code modules such as a media object player for perceiving that media to the user s device. The user s application in conjunction with the embed code renders an enhanced data object on the user s device including a representation of one or more additional media objects in step .

An important aspect of the invention is to enable the consumer to change the selection of a currently perceived media object to perception of an alternative media object in a seamless manner. If the consumer incurs a significant wait for the alternative media object he or she is less likely to choose the alternative media object and more likely to limit consumption. For example a consumer might currently perceive a Prince musical recording and decide to switch to an alternate media object consisting of a Sheila E music video. When the media object consists of a time sequence recording the media object player must typically receive an initial portion of the recording in order to play the recording without stalling. In one example embodiment the embed code therefore operates in the background first preparing an alternative media object for immediate perception and then offering that immediate perception to the consumer. A music video for example typically requires a different software codec and uses a different media object player than those used by musical recordings. In the example embodiment the embed code downloads the appropriate media object player code if needed for perception of the alternative media object before offering the alternative media object to the consumer.

Further for particular media objects there is additional switching speed advantage in downloading a sufficient buffer of initial media object data. For example a video player rendering a video data stream typically maintains a buffer to receive packets of the video data stream. The packets are received at irregular intervals using a TCP IP Internet protocol but are typically consumed at more regular intervals by a video codec. The video data buffer is operative to average the rate of received packets and maintain a constant stream of data to the video codec. The amount of data in the buffer is monitored to prevent underflow or overflow. In one embodiment a pre buffering of the initial video data stream is performed to ensure that the buffer does not empty before a video data stream can be established. If the consumer selects the Sheila E music video for example the alternative media object data buffer already contains enough of the initial portion of the music video to enable immediate perception of the beginning of the video. While the initial pre buffered portion of the video plays the enhanced media object player establishes a video data stream for the remainder of the video object data.

In the embed code optionally incorporates additional functionality to monitor a user reaction to the enhanced media in steps to . The reaction may be an explicit action of the user or it may be an implicit action. For example the associated media to be displayed on an enhanced page may be a music video rendered as a media object player control panel which is displayed on the enhanced page showing the video title image and interface controls for the media object player. A user may implicitly rate the media by ignoring the media object player or by playing some portion of the video or the user may explicitly rate the video selection in response to a request initiated by the embed code. Optionally the embed code may be operative to input explicit ratings or to derive implicit ratings based on the reaction of the user to the media object player in step . Optionally the embed code is operative in conjunction with the media tracker function and the user application to adaptively adjust the rating preferences of multiple users by transmitting a contributing rating preference in step to the media tracker function. The media tracker function updates combined user rating preferences in step .

As discussed above the operations of inserting embed code in underlying data objects such as HTML pages may be facilitated and or partially automated with the aid of one or more enhancing code modules such as a client side browser toolbar or plug in. The client side application may access embed code stored locally or stored remotely on a server. In addition the client side application may be operative to automatically login to registration server and retrieve updated versions of embed code.

For example a user might compose a blog entry describing a concert as follows. The cheerleading squad gathered at Adrian s so we could carpool to the Prince concert. We arrived at Shoreline Amphitheatre at 7 PM but the place was already a madhouse. The warm up was Sheila E and Prince didn t come out on stage until 9 PM. He was great and appeared in a big cloud of purple smoke. The encore was Purple Rain. The user may additionally locate a music video of Prince and a picture of Sheila E to include in the blog posting. In a selection enhancement mode the user may indicate a sequence of desired enhancements by effectively performing part of the media object scanner and media tracker functions. The user may indicate desired media objects to be enhanced such as by highlighting the Prince video and indicating that a related music video is desired or by selecting the phrases Prince concert Purple Rain encore and the Sheila E photograph and indicating a related musical recording is desired and so on. The user implicitly rates the importance of the various selections or may indicate their relative importance explicitly through indication of user preferences.

In a full page enhancement mode the data object enhancement mechanism automatically processes the data object description to determine a number of media objects to be inserted on the enhanced page. The media object scanner function may process the original media objects and accompanying metadata and associate each media object with one or more keywords. Considering the text page as a whole to be highly related to musical artists and to an artist named Prince in particular the media scanner function may additionally increase the rank of keywords related to musical performers and may additionally increase the rank of keywords associated with the artist Prince. The media tracker function selects media objects related to the ranked keywords. The media tracker s selection may be based on a number of preferences such as one or more most popular objects in a set of global preferences one or more highest paying media objects in a set of service provider preferences one or more media objects personally preferred by the text composing user and so on.

While a number of exemplary aspects and embodiments have been discussed above those of skill in the art will recognize certain modifications permutations additions and sub combinations thereof. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims and claims hereafter introduced are interpreted to include all such modifications permutations additions and sub combinations as are within their true spirit and scope.

