---

title: Open platform for managing an agent network
abstract: Some embodiments of the present invention provide a system for managing software agents. This system enables a user to configure agents and to specify wiring relationships between the agents and other system components. This system also includes a hub component, which is configured to route communications to and from the agents in accordance with user-specified wiring relationships.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08489668&OS=08489668&RS=08489668
owner: Intuit Inc.
number: 08489668
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071113
---
The present invention relates to software agents. More specifically the present invention relates to the design of an open platform that facilitates managing a network of software agents.

The widespread proliferation of computer networks and recent advances in software development techniques are making it easier for code written by various authors and hosted at various locations to be integrated to perform high level computational tasks. In particular programmers are beginning to use autonomous software agents which reside at various locations on a computer network to perform computational tasks on behalf of a user.

An agent is a complex software entity that can act with a certain amount of autonomy to accomplish computational tasks on behalf of a user. However unlike objects which are defined in terms of methods and attributes an agent is defined in terms of its behavior. By using agents a user can effectively complete high level computational tasks without having to worry about the intricacies involved in performing the low level operations required to accomplish the tasks. See http en.wikipedia.org wiki Software agent. 

Unfortunately there is presently no easy way for users to coordinate the actions of agents and other system components to perform a desired computational task.

Some embodiments of the present invention provide a system for managing software agents. This system enables a user to configure agents and to specify wiring relationships between the agents and other system components. This system also includes a hub component which is configured to route communications to and from the agents in accordance with user specified wiring relationships.

In some embodiments the system includes a prompter component which is configured to call one or more agents at user specified times and to forward data items returned by the calls.

In some embodiments the system includes one or more interface components which are configured to receive requests from a user and to forward the requests to the hub component.

In some embodiments the one or more interface components can include an email interface component which is configured to receive a request from the user via email a text message interface component which is configured to receive a request from the user through a text message and a voice interface component which is configured to receive an audio voice request from the user.

In some embodiments the system is configured to collect payments from users and to distribute payments to agent authors.

In some embodiments the agents include a storage agent which is configured to store data items in persistent storage.

In some embodiments the agents include a distribution agent which is configured to distribute messages to users through various communication channels.

In some embodiments the system provides a user interface which enables the user to graphically wire together agents and system components.

In some embodiments the system provides an Application Programming Interface API to enable other applications to create and modify the configuration of agents and system components.

In some embodiments the system is configured to communicate messages containing information and queries between agents and system components.

In some embodiments the data items can be structured in accordance with pre defined micro formats such as the heard or hcalendar micro formats. Note that heard is a micro format standard for publishing contact details for people companies organizations and hcalendar is a micro format standard for displaying information about an event.

The following description is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the disclosed embodiments and is provided in the context of a particular application and its requirements. Various modifications to the disclosed embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the present description. Thus the present description is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

The data structures and code described in this detailed description are typically stored on a computer readable storage medium which may be any device or medium that can store code and or data for use by a computer system. This includes but is not limited to volatile memory non volatile memory magnetic and optical storage devices such as disk drives magnetic tape CDs compact discs DVDs digital versatile discs or digital video discs or other media capable of storing computer readable media now known or later developed.

One embodiment of the present invention provides an open platform that facilitates collecting and distributing messages containing information and queries between agents in an agent network. This open platform can be used to solve a number of problems for system users including 1 having personal information locked up in sources that are not easy to access 2 having to manually retrieve public information instead of having it automatically sent and 3 needing to know how to reach friends colleagues family or other relations in social networks. For both consumers and small businesses this open platform enables a wide variety of services that can make their lives easier.

In essence the present invention provides an open platform that facilitates the movement of messages containing information and queries from producers to consumers. Within this system agents software working on the user s behalf contribute information for a user person group or organization of the system. This contribution can be pushed from the agent e.g. an agent running on an online action site says you won your auction or pulled by the agent e.g. an agent scrapes a user s bank balance . Information that is placed into the system flows to other agents who can take action on it. Note that agents can respond to a message by 1 replying to the message in some way by generating new messages 2 analyzing the message 3 storing the message 4 distributing the message via email text messaging or a voice call 5 forwarding the message to other agents and 6 performing an automated action using other applications. There are generally no restrictions on what agents can do the above list merely lists possibilities. Furthermore note that agents can be hosted on various computing platforms such as on a local computer system a server or a mobile device.

Hence the present invention can facilitate development of a loosely coupled computational system. Based on configuration information received from a user agents can contribute information upstream and other agents can process that information downstream without any of the agents knowing about the others. For example a daily scrape of portfolio information from a user s stock account by an upstream agent can be formatted by a downstream agent into a chart that is emailed to the user and can be pushed into the user s accounting application by another agent. The information can be further analyzed for asset allocation purposes by yet another agent. In this way information is effectively unlocked from a constrained location associated with a single provider and the functionality available from that provider.

The system also enables users to communicate through a number of channels. For example the system enables users to send messages through voice email or text channels to various individuals or groups. These messages can be delivered in the manner that the recipients want to receive them based on the recipient s preferences such as location time of day individually or batched etc. Hence this system can decouple the original mode of communication from the mode of communication that reaches each recipient and hence effectively puts the recipient in control. There are many existing systems that operate on information or messages but there presently exists no universal platform through which a user can own and control their information and associated communications.

The system also includes a user experience website . This user experience website allows a user to specify how agents and system components are configured and how agents and system components are wired together to provide a desired functionality. For example user experience website can provide a graphical editing tool which enables user to configure agents and to link agents and system components together. User experience website also generates configuration information which can be stored in an agent configuration database . Configuration information from agent configuration database is then used to configure various agents and system components and is also used to establish communication pathways between agents and system components. For example the user specified wiring relationships can be used to configure hub to route information between agents to accomplish a desired computational task.

In some embodiments the system can use information extracted from usage database to provide popularity ranking information for agents through user experience website . This allows the user to see which agents have been rated the highest or have been used the most. The system can also provide a recommendation engine that can suggest agents which might be useful to the user based upon information about the user and similar users.

One embodiment of the present invention also includes a prompter which is a system component that receives information specifying how agents are to be prompted and how frequently the agents are to be prompted from agent configuration database . During operation prompter periodically prompts specified agents on behalf of specific users to provide information and then forwards the information received from the specified agents to hub . More specifically in prompter periodically prompts agents and to provide information and then forwards the information to hub . For example if agent is able to retrieve bank balance information prompter can prompt agent to obtain this bank balance information once a day on behalf of user and can forward the bank balance information received from agent to hub .

In some embodiments agents can be stateless. For example such an agent can receive state information including both user configuration information and agent specific state from prompter . Note that this state information can be maintained by hub . For example an agent that tells you if any new search results have appeared for a term can store previous search results for the term in hub and have them sent along each time the agent is prompted.

In addition to receiving information from prompter hub can also receive information directly from agents such as agent . Hub can additionally receive messages from user through one or more interface components. For example in hub receives information from an email interface component which is configured to receive a request from user via email and to translate the request as necessary and forward the request to hub . Hub also receives information from a text message interface component which is configured to receive a request from user through a text message. Hub can additionally receive information from a voice interface component which is configured to receive audio data containing a voice message from user . Note that voice interface component can include voice recognition software which translates digitized audio input into text. Note that the three interface components listed above are merely provided as examples. In general the system can accommodate a wide range of different types of interface components for existing or future interfaces. For example the system can additionally provide an instant messaging interface component.

Hub can forward information to various agents which are created by agent authors. For example in hub sends messages to a distribution agent which distributes the messages to users through a number of different communication channels such as email voice and text messages. Hub can also forward information to a storage agent which is configured to store data items in persistent storage. For example storage agent can be configured to store a data item in a database system.

The system also includes a billing component which is configured to collect payments from users and to distribute payments to agent authors . Note that billing component operates in accordance with configuration information retrieved from billing configuration database . The billing information contained within billing configuration database is received from agent authors as well as from user experience website . For example the user specified wiring information from user experience website can be used to determine which agents are used to accomplish a task and billing rate information from agent authors can be used to determine how much to charge the users for the use of the agents. During operation of the system usage information from hub and from agents and other system components is recorded in usage database . Billing component uses this usage information to calculate which payments are to be received from which users and to calculate how much to pay each agent author. Next billing component requests and receives payments from users and sends payments to agent authors . By providing such payments to agent authors the present invention can provide a significant incentive to agent authors to develop new and useful agents.

Note that the various agents and components described above can be hosted on various servers and other computer systems distributed across a computer network such as the Internet. For example system components such hub and prompter can reside at one or more remote servers. Moreover agents can reside on a local computer system belonging to user or on various remote computer systems or devices.

The requests then feed into a request processing queue which stores requests that are waiting to be processed by a number of request processors which operate in parallel.

As illustrated in while processing a request a request processor can make a request to an agent . After agent finishes processing the request agent sends a corresponding response to request processor . In some cases response causes a subsequent request to be generated and forwarded to security layer .

Note that the subsequent request may generate a result which needs to be returned to the requesting client in a way that enables the requesting client to correlate the response with the initial request. This can be accomplished by allowing client to attach some type of identifier to the initial request and by ensuring that this identifier gets propagated through subsequent communications so that the ultimate response to client includes the same identifier. Client can then use this identifier to correlate the initial request with the ultimate response even if the initial request and ultimate response are communicated through different channels.

Alternatively this entire process can be made transparent to client by providing a proxy which is associated with web services interface to manage these identifiers and to communicate the ultimate response back to client through the same channel through which the initial request was received.

Next the system uses the received configuration information to configure the agents and to specify wiring relationships between the agents step .

After the system is configured the system is executed step . During this execution the system keeps track of the usage of various agents. This enables the system to subsequently collect payments from system users for their use of specific agents step and to also distribute the corresponding payments to agent authors step . Note that the system can also receive some portion of the collected payments as a fee for facilitating the process.

We now describe a number of exemplary systems which can be implemented using the above described framework.

During operation prompter periodically calls a web search rank agent at a user specified frequency for example once a day at 9 AM step A . Within this call prompter provides one or more search terms and a set of Uniform Resource Locators URLs for websites of interest. Note that system components and agents can communicate with each other through open Application Programming Interfaces APIs which specify how to call the agents and components and also specify what parameter formats to use for such calls.

Web search rank agent then performs a web search based on the search terms through a search engine to produce an ordered list of search results. Finally web search rank agent determines rankings for the web sites of interest and reports these rankings back to prompter step B .

Prompter then forwards the ranking information to hub for processing by other agents step C . Hub uses the wiring specified by user to send the ranking information to both distribution agent step D and storage agent step E . Note that distribution agent is configured to send the ranking information to user through both an email message and an SMS text message. Moreover storage agent is configured to store the ranking information in a database .

Because of the decoupled agent based structure of the above described system web search rank agent does not need to know anything about distributing messages through email or about storing information in database systems because these aspects of the systems are implemented by other agents.

Email scanning agent submits the new email messages it obtains to prompter step B . Note that various filters can be applied to these messages so that email scanning agent only submits specific types of messages.

Next prompter forwards the emails to hub for processing by other agents step C . Hub then uses the wiring specified by user to send the emails to airline scanning agent step D which looks for messages that contain airline flight confirmations.

If such a message is found airline scanning agent returns a corresponding task to hub step E . This task causes hub to create separate instances of an airline check in agent for both the outbound flight and the return flight step F .

Referring to airline check in agent automatically performs check in operations and sends out a confirmation 24 hours in advance of the flight. More specifically at the scheduled time prompter calls airline check in agent step A . In response to this call airline check in agent simulates actions of user while performing check in operations at the airline s web site on the user s behalf. Note that airline check in agent can alternatively perform check in operations using web services provided by the airline instead of performing a user simulation through the airline s website. If the web site is unavailable airline check in agent returns a reschedule request to prompter step B . Otherwise airline check in agent returns a confirmation message for user step C . Prompter then forwards the reschedule request or the confirmation message to hub to be processed by other agents step D .

If the request is a confirmation message hub uses the wiring specified by user to send the message to distribution agent which is configured to send the message to user through a preferred communication channel for example through a voice call step E . Hub can also send the message to calendar agent which updates a calendar entry for the flight to indicate that the flight has been confirmed step F .

Hub uses the wiring specified by user to send the query to a number of agents for processing including a first database search agent which performs queries for a first type of database a blog search agent and a second database search agent which performs queries for a second type of database. In this example the first database search agent recognizes the request is not directed to a first type of database so the first database search agent takes no action. Similarly the blog search agent recognizes the query is not directed to a blog so it takes no action step C .

On the other hand the second database search agent recognizes that the query is directed to the second type of database so the second database search agent processes the query against an instance of the second type of database and returns the result to hub step D .

Hub then uses the wiring specified by user to return the result to user through distribution agent in a user specified format step E . Note that this system can be configured to use a different communication channel to receive a query and to send query results. For example the system can receive a voice query from a user such as identify all my active customers within 10 miles of Oakland through a phone line and can return the requested list to the user via email because the list is likely to be too long to be conveniently received through a voice interface.

This location information can be subsequently accessed by a where I have been service which can for example generate a map showing where user has been. This enables a friend of user to see where user has been by accessing a website which retrieves information from where I have been service step D .

Referring to when user changes location significantly a who is nearby agent sends a query to hub asking the system to search for contacts near user s present location step A . Hub then uses the wiring specified by user to send the query to a number of agents for processing including an accounting program search agent which searches through contact information contained in an accounting program social network search agent which searches for acquaintances of user on a social networking site contacts search agent which searches through a set of contacts in an address book for user and Loopt search agent which keeps track of nearby friends of user through a mobile phone based application step B . The above described agents return information to hub for geographically proximate contacts of user . Hub then returns the contacts to who is nearby agent step C which can return a message to user via hub and distribution agent . Note that distribution agent can use various user specified communication channels such as voice email or text messaging to communicate with user .

The foregoing descriptions of embodiments have been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present description to the forms disclosed. Accordingly many modifications and variations will be apparent to practitioners skilled in the art. Additionally the above disclosure is not intended to limit the present description. The scope of the present description is defined by the appended claims

