---

title: Method of developing specific content and creating standardized content from the specific content
abstract: Techniques for providing software as a service for enterprise entities are described herein. In one embodiment, a first interface is provided to allow a client to browse over a network a plurality of standard content to be selected to use in one or more software applications used by the client, where the standard content is listed in one or more catalog and each catalog corresponding to a particular industrial usage. A second interface is provided to allow the client to subscribe a service of one or more specific categories selected from the standard content available via the first interface for a predetermined period of time, wherein during the predetermined period of time, the client can select one or more standard content from the subscribed categories and deploy the selected standard content in a system of the client without additional cost. Other methods and apparatuses are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07788138&OS=07788138&RS=07788138
owner: SAP AG
number: 07788138
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20071025
---
This application is related to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 923 998 filed Oct. 25 2007 entitled Content Service Marketplace Solutions .

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention relates generally to methods of providing business software services. More particularly this invention relates to providing operational models for software content services.

Software as a service SaaS model has been gaining popularity recently in the enterprise computing industry. SaaS is a software application delivery model where a software vendor develops a Web native software application and hosts and operates either independently or through a third party the application for use by its customers over the Internet. Customers pay not for owning the software itself but for using it. They use it through an application programming interface API accessible over the Web.

As a term SaaS is generally associated with business software and is typically thought of as a low cost way for businesses to obtain the same benefits of commercially licensed internally operated software without the associated complexity and high initial cost. Consumer oriented web native software is generally known as Web 2.0 and not as SaaS. Many types of software are well suited to the SaaS model where customers may have little interest or capability in software deployment but do have substantial computing needs. Application areas such as customer relations management CRM video conferencing human resources accounting and email are just a few of the initial markets showing SaaS success. The distinction between SaaS and earlier applications delivered over the Internet is that SaaS solutions were developed specifically to leverage web technologies such as the browser thereby making them web native.

There have been several SaaS providers in the market. For example Saleforce.com provides customer relationship management CRM for the sales driven companies in the same model. Microsoft provides a complete software stack Microsoft Office for desktop processing Windows as the operating system and Microsoft Dynamics for the business applications through the Office LIVE Windows LIVE as well as Dynamics LIVE initiatives.

However as a result of continuous requirement new or existing customers will continuously require new content. Sometimes a service or content provider cannot pre produce all the required content within a standard release to fulfill all customers. Chances are that the required content is not available either in a service marketplace or a standard release. Customers want to modify the content in the service marketplace or the standard content e.g. adding a logo changing the font size of a certain form . Demands as these will lead to on demand content requests. When the bottleneck of handling on demand requests is reached certain customers may lack resources or know how to develop and maintain on demand contents. Work of small amount translates into high total cost of ownership TCO if the customers choose to learn and develop the content themselves. In addition there has been a lack of platforms for a customer to browse test try download install maintain and purchase content services from a content service provider.

Techniques for providing software as a service for enterprise entities are described herein. In one embodiment a first interface is provided to allow a client to browse over a network plurality of standard content to be selected for use in one or more software applications used by the client where the standard content is listed in one or more catalog each catalog corresponding to a particular industrial usage. A second interface is provided to allow the client to subscribe a service of one or more specific categories selected from the standard content available via the first interface for a predetermined period of time wherein during the predetermined period of time the client can select one or more standard content from the subscribed categories and deploy the selected standard content in a system of the client without additional cost.

Other features of the present invention will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description which follows.

In the following description numerous details are set forth to provide a more thorough explanation of embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring embodiments of the present invention.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

According to certain embodiments of the invention a disturbed approach is utilized to reach small and midsize enterprise SME customers who will selectively adopt content delivered by a content and or service provider. The content can be Best Practice packages available from a pre produced repository of the content service provider or customized packages form by select to use content. Standard content provides distinct low cost which is the focus of midsize market customers. During a valid subscription period a customer can subscribe updated content according to its needs. An additional subscription takes place when a business plan is changed. Meanwhile the content will be updated and stay relevant. A new customer will save the hassle of implementing generic content. A continuous and close feedback loop tailors standard release portfolios according to market requirements which are based on the trend of customer content requirements and the content service provider s expectations.

Thus while a content service provider is focusing on standardized country industry as well as requestor specific requirements e.g. make to order or on demand the content service provider needs an industrialized service center to consistently provide low cost pre defined content and remote service to customers partners and the content service provider internal including field and development.

In one embodiment the service center may include a main or central service center e.g. headquarter and one or more regional area centers that may be geographically located all over the world. Service center may provide highly efficient industrialized content delivery and may be located in cost effective countries or regions for example as shown in . With a central office and one or more regional centers the service center can provide global services to its customers. The service centers located at regional hubs and diverse country locations can provide onsite and local language support for deliverables from and inputs to the central office. For remote services with high portion of oral communication in local languages when such staffs are not available in the main service center they will be provided directly from the regional service centers.

As a result there is a cost efficient option for customers and or partners to offshore standard and tailored content build efforts. In addition there is a quick turnaround time for requested content through a high degree of productization specialization and global availability. Further there is a guaranteed quality and up to datedness support through additional services. On the other hand for a content service provider there is an additional revenue opportunity by turning content into a service. There is a global reach to the customers at a low cost through the strengthening of remote services for volume business. There is also a content back office for the field and support organization. Further there is an outside in feedback loop to tailor the content service provider s content portfolio to market requirements.

In one embodiment the onsite engagement unit may be part of regional service center located locally with respect to certain customers to be serviced. The onsite engagement is designed to perform certain operations that are associated with certain customers including project management business process advisorship organization change management and business benchmarking consulting etc. The onsite engagement unit may perform additional tasks dependent upon the project complexity and customer preferences.

Service center is configured to provide content services to the onsite engagement unit including content services and remote services . Content services may include on demand content catalog based content subscription based content which include a variety of types including analytical reports forms user interfaces etc.

On demand content is referred to during new content implementations or when business changes occur during usage customers may require new forms reports configuration or modifications to existing content. Modifications also occur when customers want to customize any standard content obtained from the service marketplace e.g. part of service center for their needs. A content service provider provides content on demand service through a content factory e.g. part of unit to help customers meet these development efforts. Customers specify required modifications or new content and the content factory delivers such content together with related knowledge transfer material.

Catalog based content is referred to in situations where new and existing customers may require standard content such as forms reports etc to meet generic business needs. They want standard content without taking any subscriptions. To help these customers get required content a content service provider lists all content into a content catalog on the service marketplace and classifies them into different categories for easy browsing. Customers choose the most suitable standard content. This service also caters to customers with need for diverse standard content and customers who only require small quantities of content each time.

Subscription based content is referred to herein in situations where new and existing customers of AlS may require content such as forms reports etc that may be generic across their industry and or function. Business changes are often generic and affect everyone. A content service provider offers customers an option to subscribe to content updates to avoid wasting resources making generic changes. Whenever new content becomes widely adopted the content service provider will create and make them available to all current subscribers as standard content. As their business changes additional subscriptions may be taken to ensure required content used is updated and relevant. For new customers content subscription saves the hassle of implementing generic content.

Referring back to remote services may include various types of services such as for example a scoping session trial solution introduction trial assistance go live assistance data migration preparation data migration fine tuning assistance interface realization testing helpdesk setup helpdesk knowledge back office migration from one solution to another solution and or business benchmarking and usage report etc.

During a scoping session decision makers key users and If administrators of a customer or client are guided in intensive hands on workshops and sessions by solution engineers through the process of detailed scope selection in which the scope for the customer s enterprise application solution is defined. During the workshops results from high level scope selection are reviewed and verified the company s organizational structure is set up and information about any remaining requirements such as hardware sizing delta requirements data migration and integration with third party systems is gathered. Delta requirements are verified by the back office. Additional requirements for content on demand are negotiated with the content factory and services are selected by the prospect customer or client based on the prospect s needs.

During a trial solution instruction phase the prospect will be taken on a guided tour through his personal demo system. During this guidance the prospect can obtain more additional information on the enterprise application solution such as its implementation approach or to jointly continue the evaluation of the enterprise application solution.

With trial assistance the prospects receive expert guidance and a dedicated contact person to exploit the full set of benefits they obtain with an AlS trial solution. This service includes joint elaboration of an approach on how to leverage the trial solution coaching decision makers and key users in working with the trial solution handling of questions that might arise during the use of the trial solution optional support of classifying specifying and evaluation of delta requirements by back office content factory. However this process of decision making may be accelerated. All or some of the scoping and fine tune decisions and results are carried forward to go live.

With go live assistance an expert from the content service provider will guide and support execution of the final activities before a customer uses the enterprise application solution in production. This includes supporting and coaching activities like finalizing end user documentation readiness checks cutover etc.

Data migration is a central topic for customers when deploying an enterprise application solution. The data migration preparation supports customers to prepare for data migration including introduction of the data migration approach and respective tools for data mapping and data import embedded in the enterprise application solution coaching of development of Data migration strategy e.g. which data from which systems which periods of time historical data etc. coaching of evaluation of data conversion requirements e.g. which data how to convert and support of compilation of an overall data migration concept and plan e.g. including data cleansing of legacy system data by the customer and converting and filling data into data import sheets by the customer .

Data migration service covers data load of data provided in the data import sheets as well as support for resolving problems occurring during data load. The data import sheets are embedded in the enterprise application solution and are filled with respective data by the customer i.e. data extraction data cleansing data conversion mapping and filling of the data import sheets are not included in the service.

Fine tuning can be described as a set of activities that a customer must perform in order to adjust the customer s enterprise application solution system to its specific business needs. Fine Tuning is based on the results of the scoping process described above in which the customer determines what processes functions and features the customer would like to implement. With the fine tuning assistance service customers have an option to have an enterprise solution expert from the content service provider to guide and support execution of fine tuning. The fine tuning assistance service can cover the adoption of existing forms reports user interfaces and configuration parameters.

The interface realization service makes sure that the enterprise application solution works with third party solutions the customers has in place and for which plug ins are available. This includes deployment of available plug ins i.e. setup of connectivity and synchronization. Support of definition of mapping conversion rules testing of interface and check of data consistency. An expert can guide and support testing in the go live phase during the necessary test activities and embedded test tools planning execution and monitoring.

The helpdesk setup service assists customers in setting up their company internal help desk in which key users take care of support requests posted by the end users. The enterprise application solution contains detailed examples and knowledge transfer material on how to set up their help desk. However if required this service provides customers with access to an expert who will address customer specific questions and arrange a tailored proposal for help desk setup. The helpdesk knowledge back office handles customer partner non defect calls respond to customer feedback such as defining content requirements change requests and removal of errors in solution content consult customers during integration of knowledge into WEKTRA contents and prepare periodic reports on effectiveness and knowledge the transfer desk.

The standard business benchmarking report service provides a customer peer group specific business benchmarking document to the c level. It includes peer group median best in class KPI values comments and explanations generic peer group trends as well as a link to the relevant section in the service mall for business consulting. Support of this service technical question content explanation is part of standard product support. The derivable actions based on individual analysis enables the target group to maximize solution usage optimize customer s business guide focus and prioritize SAP solution development and adaptively analyze new market development.

Service center marketplace may be implemented as part of service center marketplace of which may be implemented as a Web server or a cluster of servers. In one embodiment service center marketplace includes but is not limited to user interface which may be implemented as a Web interface such as for example graphical user interfaces GUIs as shown in and a variety of content services such as on demand content catalog based content subscription based content and or remote services supported by content service support unit .

As described above on demand content is the most generic service provided by service center . Customers are encouraged to search available content on marketplace when need. If there is no content available customers may request an on demand service for specific content. Content on demand provides customers with tailored solution content for a wide variety of content types on demand meeting their specific business requirements. Content provided to customers is delivered with related knowledge transfer material. Maintenance for the content is included as well. Content types include but are not limited to new reports adapted reports new forms adapted forms built in knowledge environment adapted UIs and field extensions. The customers must be able to adapt and enhance the solution to meet their individual business requirements. If the customer desired content is not available in the existing deliverables the customer can request on demand content service through the service center to meet their specific business needs.

As shown in the on demand content process is triggered when a customer submits a request. When new business requirements of customers arise and customers fail to find a solution in the standard content then they can initiate a search for content in the content marketplace. If they also failed to find suitable content they can create corresponding on demand content requests. The service center generates a sales order according to the quotation signed by the customer and organizes the process of development and testing. After developing and testing the content it can be packaged and delivered to the customer. Then the customer can implement the content in the customer s enterprise system.

Specifically referring to when an on demand request is received service delivery management personnel will contact the customer to understand requirements upon receipt of service request. Once the requirements are confirmed a requirement list is generated. A service advisor verifies the requirement list before the service delivery management generates a quotation for the customer. When the customer is satisfied with the price a purchase order will be generated for confirmation. Upon confirmation of purchase order a sale order is generated. The service advisor receives the sales order and runs planning tools to book resources and reconfirm date of delivery. Once the delivery dates are confirmed production orders are released to project development leads. Based on the production order the project leads will assign specialized developers to each individual task. Developers work on their tasks once task pre requisites have been fulfilled. Information developers will create knowledge transfer materials for delivery to the customer. Once development is completed the project leads will upload the content and documentation into content repository. Thereafter a notification will be generated to inform the customer to download the content. Finance will follow up with the invoicing upon good receipt. The customer will receive recommendation and implement the delivered content in the system. The customer s on demand request history will be updated.

Catalog based content is productized content that is priced individually on the market place. There will be no modification for catalog based content in its implementation similar to a take it or leave it model and this is the basis for subscription. Catalog based content service provides customers with pre produced customized content in the content marketplace. A content service provider lists all content available into a content catalog on the content marketplace and classifies them into different categories for easy browsing searching. Customers choose the most suitable standard content they need and purchase it with easy content logistics. This service also caters to customers with need for diverse standard content and customers who only require small quantities of content each time. When a new business request is raised a key user can try to find a solution in an end user s system. If the customers can not find content in the standard content that fulfill their business requirements the customers can access the content marketplace for further search. Content can be searched via key words and the following criteria 

After the customer downloads catalog based content sales order and billing will be triggered. Service Center provides the selected content. A customer can test the content without charge in test tenant and finally deploy the content in customer s system with authorization data which delivered by service center after payment. Some maintenance service can be provided after the deployment for example as shown in .

Subscription services will provide the customer the least spending on the most available content within a certain period of time such as 12 months. Certain portions e.g. 80 of catalog based content may be available for customers who enroll in annual subscription. Customers need to renew the subscription every certain period of time such as 12 months. According to certain embodiments of the invention the content service provider continuously provides updates for existing content and or adds new content for every industry function and country defined in content marketplace. Updates and new content may be developed in response to business changes so they will be relevant to all customers using content in the relevant area. Customers with valid subscriptions will receive updates and new content in their relevant area. Subscription is one kind of content service offered by the service center. When a customer is interested in certain business solutions existing in the service center catalog they can ask for catalog based subscription content service. Having paid for the subscription customers can download and deploy corresponding content for free within the period paid.

Specifically for example a content standardization committee confirms additions to standard content. The content will be classified into one or more categories such as for example industry function and or country. Cross classification may be implemented. A customer with a subscription authorization can search content marketplace and find a recommendation for the associated subscription. After the customer confirms a sales order will be generated and then billing online payment and change customer account profile may be performed. Once the customer subscribes content successfully a notification will be sent to the customer and then the customer can implement relevant content in the customer s system. Any customer with a subscription containing a specific classification will be notified about the updates associated with that specific classification. Customers can decide for themselves whether to implement the update. Customers without valid subscriptions but with content in the same classification will be notified of the updates. They will need to order a new subscription if they want that content update. After subscriptions expire customers continue to use whatever content received earlier but will not get further updates. Once subscriptions expire customers cannot add any content provided by the content service provider even if that content was available during the subscription period. Content specific to a particular industry may be bundled into a specific Best Practice package. Content specific to a particular function may be bundled into function based Best Practice packages. Country specific packages may be divided into function based or industry based and are sold as separate country add on packages. Customers may also mix and match individual content and all the selected content will be bundled into customized packages. Customized packages are categorized according to the number of content it contains with packages in each category having the same number of content. As the number of content in the customized packages increase the unit price per content will decrease.

Remote service may be charged on a case by case basis. Internally each incident may include several unit services and more complicated remote services may require more unit services. For example each unit service hour is 30 minutes. Furthermore brokering service may also be provided in which quality control personnel may check content developed by partners who will be able to sell on the content marketplace. A partner may have to pay a commission for each transaction.

Referring back to partners may include VARs or agents which can order content for their customers in their specific work center on marketplace with tools to support them to do content business. VAR agent partners may receive certain percentage e.g. 30 commission on selling catalog based content subscription based content and remote service . VAR agent partners may also receive certain percentage e.g. 15 of commission on selling on demand content . VAR agent partners share the volume of customer requests and provide faster responses to the customers. In fact more educated partners may reduce the service cost of service center . How to sell content on content marketplace may be part of the partner readiness programs.

In addition partners may include third party integrators which may provide additional content that is out of the content service provider s scope or capability. The third party integrators may develop additional content based on the standard catalog based content. The content developed by the third party integrator may be listed in the marketplace after a quality control process which may be charged a processing fee as a commission. However the third party integrator is responsible for supporting its developed content listed on the marketplace. Further the third party integrator may jointly develop new content with the service center .

Further partners may include third party outsourcing partners which constitute extended development resource to ensure the service center delivering the same service quality when the requests may exceed the capability of the service center. The service center may leverage the lower cost of outsourcing partners to reduce development cost and improve business margin. The outsourcing partners may need to follow the development processes of the service center. Note that some or all of the components of service center may be implemented in software hardware or a combination of both.

Referring to at block in response to a new business requirement of an enterprise system a client e.g. clients of searches its local standard content for possible use for the new business requirement. If the client cannot find it at block the client accesses over a network the content marketplace e.g. marketplace of hosted by a content service provider. At block the client searches one or more catalogs within the content marketplace for additional standardized content available at the content marketplace. If the client cannot find it at block the client may initiate an on demand request for the required content and pay for the cost of the on demand request. After the requested content has been developed and tested at block the requested content is delivered to the client to be implemented in the client s system. At block optionally the delivered content is made available in a catalog as standardized content for future browsing. Other operations may also be performed.

As described above an online service center marketplace provides an integrated online e business platform for customers to browse test try download install maintain and purchase content service from the service center for their enterprise solutions to implement their business requirements. On the platform a customer is able to search for browse test their yearning or tagging content. The customer is able to see a mock up of the ordered content in a try out system. Once the customer decides to build their business specific content they can find an approach to express deliver their business requirement easily and accurately.

Thus content service marketplace is the central online e business platform which provides intuitive navigation to guide the customer to submit their requirements search trial download install maintain and even purchase contents forms analytics reports WEKTRA etc and remote service. It provides context related assistance or contact information when the customer is in the content marketplace. Some searching mechanisms are provided and the customer can easily search content such as for example keyword based and catalogue based searching. It provides the customer with a predefined template tool based guided questions or forms to fill in the business requirements as a wizard in CM to collect customer requirements accurately. The content marketplace displays most or all information in local language e.g. English Chinese Italy Germany French Spanish etc. and customized e.g. inc. number format currency format time and date format automatically in accordance with the user s system settings.

The content s detailed information e.g. content attributes and attached documents can be retrieved from a content repository and can be published to the content marketplace. It provides users with functions to add content into download basket delete content from download basket to integrate with content repository for example to push ITSAM content recommendation for content downloading. The content marketplace has the ability to display content promotion information in the content marketplace promote a subscription business model via the content marketplace and promote the most popular and latest content. The content marketplace may further provide recommendations to a user including recommendations with information base iBase recommendations with pre selected information recommendations with the customer s behavior recommendations for relevant content recommendations for upgrade content display recommendations and recommendations for subscription etc.

Referring to according to certain embodiments of the invention a variety of content is listed in one or more catalogs to be selected to be purchased and downloaded either individually or via subscription as described above. The listed content may be located by searching one or more keywords via a search field . The catalogs may be arranged via certain categories and or subcategories. In this example catalog may be implemented based on a business area category. For each of the business area categories there may be one or more business packages listed as subcategory . Likewise for each business package there may one or more business topics as another subcategory. A client may individually select or highlight any of the content or content categories in any of the fields which may be implemented as a list menu a popup menu or other various GUIs.

In addition according to one embodiment when a user selects an item from lists content that satisfies the selection may be displayed in display area which may be sorted according to a variety of rules or policies such as most popular. Furthermore the content may be refined according to a variety of categories such as for example by type by country and or by industry etc. as well as the number of content items available for each category. Any of the selected contents can be purchased which will be saved in folder or alternative if the user is not sure the selected content can be saved in folder for future usage. The summary of the user account can be viewed via link .

If the user cannot find what the user wants the user may request for an on demand service as described above. In this example the user may request an on demand service by activate button or control which will be described in further detail below. Further certain content that has been previously viewed by the same user or company associated with the user may be displayed in display area .

As described above a user can search certain content listed in catalogs based on one or more keywords entered in search field . In response to the search a search result is displayed for example as shown in . Referring to in response to one or more keywords entered in field according to one embodiment a search result is displayed in this example including three content items that match the searched keywords. Each of the content items in the search result includes a summary of the respective content item. The summary of the content item includes but is not limited to a brief description type version industry country price and or published date of the content item. The summary of a content item further includes reviews or ratings from other users or customers. The summary of the content item further includes a button or control which when activated the respective content item will be added to folder for purchase or folder for future references. Further certain related searches of the user are displayed in display area and likewise certain recent searches of the user are displayed in display area for user to review.

The detailed information regarding each of the content items can be displayed via an activation of the corresponding link as shown in . Referring to in this example additional detailed information of content item is displayed. In addition to the information described above a thumbnail image of the content item is displayed in display area and a larger version of the image can be displayed via an activation of link . The content item may be added to a purchase basket by activating button or alternatively the content item may be added to wish list folder by activating button . In addition the user may notify e.g. sending an email another user regarding this content item by activating button . Further the most recent reviews by other users may be displayed in display area and more reviews can be viewed by activating link .

Furthermore certain prerequisites of the content item may be viewed via link for example as shown in . Referring to with the prerequisite information displayed a user can easily estimate whether the user s system meets all of the prerequisites of the content item for deployment. If one or more prerequisites of the content item have not been satisfied the user may optionally browse the one or more catalogs as shown in to purchase those prerequisites.

Further the content item may be marked as a reference which may be used to request an on demand service via an activation of button for example as shown in . Referring to when a user requests an on demand service for example by activating button of an on demand request form is displayed including a variety of fields to receive inputs from the user. The on demand request form includes field to allow a user to enter a name for the request for identifying the specific request which may be shown in display area dependent upon the specific situations or stages of the processes. The user may specify a type of content on demand request in field which may be in one of a variety of types as described above. The user may further specify the content name in field with a brief description in field .

In addition the user may specify one or more options of the on demand request in fields . For example the user may specify another content item as a reference for the on demand request which may be indicated by marking the referenced content item for example by activating control of . Note that all of the marked references may be displayed in display area from which the user may view or select. The user may further specify the type of application in which the request content will be deployed as well as the form type and size of the page the language of the content requested etc. The user may further specify how urgent the requested content is needed by specifying the priority of the requested content and the target delivery date as well as the target price. The user may further request a service associated with request such as for example configuration service or other consulting services.

The user may further select another template for the on demand request via link and may attach another file or files to the request via link . Once the user has completed the request form the user may submit the request via button where the submitted request will be shown in display area . Alternatively the user may save the request via button which will be shown in display area . Previously submitted requests confirmed by a service content provider may be displayed in display area . All completed and or delivered request may be displayed in display area . Note that the GUIs as shown in are illustrated for purposes of illustration only. Other configurations or implementations may also be implemented.

As shown in the computer system which is in the form of a data processing system includes a bus or interconnect coupled to a processor and a ROM a volatile RAM and a non volatile memory . Processor may include multiple processors and or core logics that constitute central processing units CPUs of the system and thus control the overall operations of the system. According to certain embodiments processor accomplishes this by executing software stored in any of the memories such as for example applications and operating systems etc. Processor may include one or more programmable general purpose or special purpose microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs programmable controllers application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs or the like or a combination of such devices.

The processor which may be for example an Intel processor or a PowerPC processor is coupled to cache memory as shown in the example of . The bus interconnects these various components together and also interconnects these components and to a display controller and display device as well as to input output I O devices which may be mice keyboards modems network interfaces printers and other devices which are well known in the art.

Typically the input output devices are coupled to the system through input output controllers . The volatile RAM is typically implemented as dynamic RAM DRAM which requires power continuously in order to refresh or maintain the data in the memory. The non volatile memory is typically a magnetic hard drive a magnetic optical drive an optical drive a DVD RAM a Flash memory or other type of memory system which maintains data even after power is removed from the system. Typically the non volatile memory will also be a random access memory although this is not required.

While shows that the non volatile memory is a local device coupled directly to the rest of the components in the data processing system it will be appreciated that the present invention may utilize a non volatile memory which is remote from the system such as a network storage device which is coupled to the data processing system through a network interface such as a modem or Ethernet interface. The bus may include one or more buses connected to each other through various bridges controllers and or adapters as is well known in the art. In one embodiment the I O controller includes a USB Universal Serial Bus adapter for controlling USB peripherals. Alternatively I O controller may include an IEEE 1394 adapter also known as FireWire adapter for controlling FireWire devices. Other components may also be included.

Some portions of the preceding detailed descriptions have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the ways used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. The operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Embodiments of the present invention also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs erasable programmable ROMs EPROMs electrically erasable programmable ROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and each coupled to a computer system bus.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method operations. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition embodiments of the present invention are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of embodiments of the invention as described herein.

A machine readable medium may include any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a machine readable medium includes read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices electrical optical acoustical or other form of propagated signals e.g. carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. etc.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

