---

title: Multimedia spaces
abstract: The claimed subject matter provides a system and/or method that detect watermarks incorporated within analog and/or digital signals associated with multimedia presentations. The disclosed system can include a component that receives analog and/or digital signals, ascertains the existence of a watermark associated with the received signals, and extracts metadata encapsulated within the watermark, wherein the metadata can both include information regarding the broadcast multimedia presentations as well as information unrelated to the broadcast multimedia. Extracted metadata or more particularly, attributes contained within the metadata can be utilized to establish online social networks based at least on the associated attributes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08055708&OS=08055708&RS=08055708
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08055708
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070601
---
Advancements in networking and computing technologies have transformed many aspects of everyday life and in particular have transformed computers from being low performance high cost devices capable of performing elementary word processing and simplistic basic mathematical computations and manipulations to high performance low cost machines capable of a myriad of disparate and highly complex functions and utilities. For instance computers have become household staples rather than luxuries educational tools and or entertainment centers and can provide individuals and corporations tools to manage and forecast finances control operations such as heating cooling lighting and security and store records and images in a permanent and reliable medium. As further illustration at the consumer level computing devices can be employed to aid users in paying bills tracking expenses communicating nearly instantaneously with friends and or family across vast distances by way of e mail and or instant messaging obtaining information from networked the repositories and numerous other functions activities.

As computing and network technologies have evolved and have become more robust secure and reliable more consumers wholesalers retailers entrepreneurs educational institutions and the like have and are shifting business paradigms and are employing the Internet to perform business rather than utilizing traditional means. For example today consumers can access their bank accounts on line e.g. via the Internet and can perform an ever growing number of banking transactions such as balance inquiries fund transfers bill payments and the like.

Enterprises and individuals are increasingly becoming interested in utilizing miniaturized handheld devices for various useful purposes such as watching and listening to multimedia clips and presentations receiving and transmitting telephone conversations text messages and the like. Most modern handheld devices typically are equipped with multiple sensors and or input and output instrumentalities e.g. microphones wireless transmitters global positioning systems GPS engines liquid crystal displays LCDs cameras speakers etc. .

Today many people persist their favorite multimedia content e.g. audio clips albums movies and the like to their PCs hand held devices and the like so that they can repeatedly listen or watch this stored content. Additionally people often record without immediately watching or listening to the recorded content e.g. recording television shows the future viewing . Nevertheless as of yet there has not been a mechanism that assesses individual s collective partialities to particular multimedia clips and thereafter uses these perceived preferences to facilitate social interaction between those individuals with similar affinities.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosed subject matter. This summary is not an extensive overview and it is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope thereof. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The claimed subject matter in accordance with one aspect of the claimed subject matter effectuates and facilitates establishing connections between entities listening and or simultaneously perceiving similar and or identical multimedia audio visual presentations. Additionally the subject matter as claimed in a further aspect can establish online communities based at least in part on commonalities that can exist between members with respect to a multimedia segment that the members may be contemporaneously playing or viewing and or may previously have perceived and or persisted on their multimedia devices. Moreover the claimed subject matter in a further illustrative aspect can automatically and dynamically construct or establish online communities based on the genre of multimedia presentation being transmitted. In addition the subject matter as claimed in a further illustrative aspect can fractionate and or dynamically partition online communities based on genre author cultural categories artistic form and the like.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects of the disclosed and claimed subject matter are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles disclosed herein can be employed and is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject matter as claimed is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof.

The claimed subject matter effectuates and facilitates establishing connections between entities listening and or contemporaneously perceiving similar and or identical multimedia audio visual presentations e.g. music clips visual clips and the like . Additionally the subject matter as claimed can establish online communities based at least in part on commonalities that can exist between members with respect to a multimedia segment that the members may be contemporaneously playing and or may have previously been perceived and or persisted on their multimedia devices e.g. laptops handheld devices Personal Digital Assistants PDAs cell phones smart phones desktop personal computers notebooks tablet PCs consumer electronic devices industrial electronic devices etc. . Moreover the claimed subject matter can automatically construct online communities based on the genre of multimedia presentation e.g. classical jazz easy listening blues funk rock pop country electronic melodic reggae hip hop contemporary African music gong and chime music and the like . In addition the subject matter as claimed can fractionate and or dynamically partition online communities based on genre author cultural categories e.g. Chinese Persian Indian . . . artistic form e.g. Renaissance Baroque Romantic etc. and the like.

Accordingly in one aspect of the claimed subject matter a device based at least in part on a multimedia segment that is being played on a server or client device can locate other individuals and or entities that are currently listening or perceiving a similar and or an identical multimedia clip e.g. track album group artistic and the like and or have listened or perceived the same and or similar multimedia presentations in the past. The device once having identified entities and or individuals with identical and or similar inclinations or dispositions in multimedia genre can thereafter associate and or connect entities with one another to establish a social network based at least in part on the apprehended similarity of interest in the same track chapter segment album artist genre sub genre and or sub classification of multimedia presentation e.g. music films advertisements comedy sketches comedians etc. . Such a social network can for example reside in a social computing space that offers an interactive user submitted network of acquaintances personal profiles groups photos music and videos. Additionally and or alternatively the social network can dynamically be created for the duration of the playing of the multimedia segment or for the duration for which an interest is evinced from individuals that can comprise the social network. In other words a social network can exist until the last entity and or individual exits a constructed social network at which point the constructed social network presence can terminate for lack of interest for example. It should be noted at this juncture for purposes of explanation and not limitation that during existence of the dynamically created social network that entities and or individuals are free to join depart and rejoin the social network at will and thus membership thereof can be highly dynamic and or changeable.

Such social network facilities and or mechanisms can allow entities to locate other entities with similar or common inclinations and interests. Thus through utilization of the claimed subject matter an individual can determine what kind of multimedia presentation another individual is interested in and based at least in part on such gathered or aggregated information social interaction between individuals can take place. It should be noted once again for purposes of illustration and not limitation that the aforementioned gathered collated and or consolidated information can be temporarily and or permanently persisted on the social computing space and or social network. It should further be noted for purposes of elucidation and not limitation that gathered collated aggregated and or consolidated information can be shared in its entirety within the social computing space and or social network or only portions may be shared by the totality of the social computing space and or social network and or only selected portions of the entirety of the gathered aggregated and or consolidated information can be shared with a select few of the totality of the social computing space and or social network for reasons of security.

As will be readily apparent to those cognizant in the art the foregoing interaction can include creation of fan clubs dating networks and or any kind a social networking activity based on collection of information.

Watermarking has become a technology of choice for a broad range of multimedia copyright protection applications and can be employed to embed format independent metadata into audio video multimedia signals in a manner robust to common editing. Watermarking effectively imprints a media signal with a robust secret and imperceptible watermark. Watermarking is a process that imperceptibly augments characteristics into analog and or digital signals. Watermarking introduces or embeds a small perturbation into the signals so that the multimedia segment pertaining to the augmented signal for all intents and purposes is perceptually identical to the original unaltered or augmented signal. As can be appreciated watermarking takes advantage of and relies on imperfections in the human sensory system. Studies have demonstrated that the human sensory system is typically insensitive to small perturbations or amplitude changes either in the time or frequency domains as well as insertion of low amplitude time domain echoes. Accordingly information modulation can usually be carried out using spread spectrum or quantization index modulation. Advantages of both spread spectrum and quantization index modulation can include the fact watermark detection does not generally require the original recording and that ordinarily it is difficult to extract hidden data using optimal statistical analysis.

Watermarking thus is a process wherein existing multimedia fragments excerpts or segments or a multimedia presentation e.g. a film movie an music album a music track a chapter etc. in its entirety is imperceptibly augmented or supplemented with additional attributes or characteristics. In other words additional features or differentia can be introduced into the analog and or digital signal via minute perturbations such that a detector can decode the introduced perturbations to derive deduce and or ascertain the information ensconced within the perturbation. For instance information such as artist name copyright information and information affiliated with a particular multimedia fragment can be encoded within the multimedia segment as a small humanly indiscernible perturbation.

Thus by utilizing such information e.g. artist name genre author information copyright information online chat room coordinates etc. as metadata and encoding this metadata within perturbations of the digital and or analog signals that constitute the multimedia segment and or presentation such that the perturbations are indistinct to the human sensory system social networks can be established allowing individuals that can comprise a social network to communicate and interact with one another. It should be noted for purposes of explanation and not limitation that embedded or ensconced metadata can be preserved when signals are transformed from analog to digital and from digital to analog. In other words there is no loss in encapsulated metadata regardless of whether the signal is transformed from analog to digital or from digital to analog. Accordingly metadata including other information artist information multimedia genre online chat room coordinates e.g. link Universal Resource Locator URL and the like can be instituted into a multimedia clip and or presentation via metadata. For example if chat room coordinates are maintained or cached within the metadata associated with embedded watermarks such coordinates can be employed to dynamically and or automatically create ad hoc extemporaneous chat rooms. Additionally and or alternatively chat room coordinates adumbrated within metadata associated with encapsulated watermarks can be utilized to dynamically and or automatically initiate transmitory or chat rooms a short duration that can exist for varying durations such as for example the duration of the music album track or sector or for the length of performance or for the entirety of a broadcast.

It should be noted at this juncture and at the outset that while the claimed subject matter is explicated for the purposes of clarity simplicity of exposition and comprehension in the context of watermarking the subject matter as claimed is not so limited. The claimed subject matter can find applicability in a plethora of other contexts mechanisms and applications beyond the watermarking paradigm. For example as will be recognized by those conversant in the art multimedia hashing and or raw metadata in digital format can be utilized in conjunction with the subject matter as claimed without departing from the spirit intent and scope of the claimed subject matter. Accordingly any and all such applicability and derivations thereof is deemed to fall within the ambit of the claimed subject matter.

Turning now to the figures. illustrates a system that effectuates and facilitates encapsulation of metadata within watermarks associated with the analog and or digital signals that can comprise multimedia segments tracks or presentations. System can detect the presence of embedded watermarks and thereafter derive and or determine the content of associated and or cached metadata. As illustrated system can include client that can be any type of machine that includes a processor. Illustrative machines that can constitute client can include portable media players Personal Digital Assistants PDAs cell phones smart phones laptop computers notebook computers consumer devices appliances industrial automation devices automotive components aviation components hand held devices desktop computers server computing platforms etc.

Client as depicted can be in continuous and operative or sporadic communication via network topology with server . Network topology can include any viable communication technology for example wired and or wireless modalities and or technologies can be employed to effectuate the subject matter as claimed. Moreover network topology can include utilization of Personal Area Networks PANs Local Area Networks LANs Campus Area Networks CANs Metropolitan Area Networks MANs extranets intranets the Internet Wide Area Networks WANs both centralized and distributed and or any combination permutation and or aggregation thereof.

Client can detect watermark information embedded in transmitted analog and or digital signals emanating from server . For example client on detecting encapsulated watermark information can for instance extract and or deduce based at least in part on the extracted information chat room coordinates e.g. URL link etc. . Client can utilize such chat room coordinates to effectuate operative communication with network topology and can commence transmitting security information e.g. credentials associated with client device and or user employing client and thereafter automatically establish a chat room presence for a user of client . Additionally and or alternatively client on detection of chat room coordinates can display the extracted coordinates e.g. a link on an associated visual display for subsequent user interaction. In this manner impromptu extemporaneous social networks communities can be constructed or assembled to allow users interested in a particular multimedia clip to freely interact with one another in a social setting.

Server like client can be any type of machine that includes a processor and is capable of effective communication with network topology . Machines that can comprise server can include desktop computers server class computing devices cell phones smart phones laptop computers portable multimedia players notebook computers tablet PCs consumer and or industrial devices and or appliances automotive accessories aviation equipment hand held devices Personal Digital Assistants PDAs and the like. Further server can be any device that can play and or disseminate prerecorded multimedia tracks e.g. music selections group prerecorded multimedia tracks according to genre and dynamically and or concurrently e.g. while a prerecorded multimedia track or selection of tracks are being played embed watermark data into the disseminating multimedia presentation e.g. cache watermark data within the analog and or digital signals that can comprise the media presentation while the presentation is being played and or disseminated . For example server can embed metadata within the watermark data information that can relate to the selection of multimedia tracks that will prospectively be played. As further illustration server can select a number of tracks from the Acid Jazz genre and then watermark this information e.g. title artist order of play etc. into the selection such that this watermark indication can be picked up and decoded by client at which point further actions can be either automatically performed e.g. through artificial intelligence pre established lists dynamically determined lists etc. or user input can be selectively solicited. In other words server can announce a program of multimedia clips for a predetermined period of time e.g. half hour one hour half day etc. . For instance server can play the same selection of songs everyday but can embed different metadata into the watermark on a determinable variable and or periodic basis for example. Moreover the data embedded within the multimedia segment can be independent of the multimedia fragment itself. So in addition to information about track and genre selections other data can be encapsulated. For example different advertisements and or discounts on products sold in a store can be incorporated. Additionally data included within the multimedia segment by way of watermarking can also be dynamically changeable. For instance if a caf broadcasts that there will be a 50 discount on lattes for the next 30 minutes the system can monitor the effluxion of time and automatically and dynamically change the metadata incorporated within the watermark broadcast to account for the passage of time.

Interface can receive data from a multitude of sources such as for example data associated with a particular client application service user client and or entity involved with a portion of a transaction and thereafter can convey the received information to detection component for further analysis. Additionally interface can receive analyzed detection information from detection component which can then be communicated to server via network topology for example.

Interface can provide various adapters connectors channels communication pathways etc. to integrate the various components included in system into virtually any operating system and or database system and or with one another. Additionally interface can provide various adapters connectors channels communication modalities etc. that can provide for interaction with various components that can comprise system and or any other component external and or internal data and the like associated with system .

Detection component can perceive the existence of watermark information being broadcast or transmitted within multimedia fragments tracks and or multimedia presentations. Detection component can thereafter extract metadata that can have been cached within the detected watermark information and locate an item of interest e.g. genre of music album movie etc. within the metadata. Further detection component can locate further information associated with metadata cached within the extracted and watermarked information e.g. chat room or social computing environment coordinates . Detection component can utilize this information to establish an online community if one does not already exist or detection component can automatically facilitate joining an extant online community wherein a commonality of interest exists between members with respect to a multimedia fragment track sector and or multimedia presentation. Additionally and or alternatively detection component can also embed or incorporate watermarking information of its own. This facility can be utilized when client includes mechanisms to play and or broadcast multimedia content that can have been previously persisted and or associated with client . Additionally and or alternatively client can incorporate additional watermarking information unique to client and thereafter retransmit and or rebroadcast multimedia content. Thus client can dynamically embed metadata via watermarking. For example an associated client multimedia player recorder not shown can commence playing and or recording a multimedia clip and while the multimedia clip is playing and or recording client can contemporaneously cache within the multimedia clip being performed e.g. simulcast or transmitted data such as advertisements and other such messages that can subsequently be detected and decoded by another disparate client device for instance.

It is to be appreciated that store can be for example volatile memory or non volatile memory or can include both volatile and non volatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation non volatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM electrically programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which can act as external cache memory. By way of illustration rather than limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM . Moreover by way of further illustration store can also include nonvolatile storage that persists digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating platters with magnetic and or optically retentive surfaces and or coatings e.g. hard disks and or magnetic tape. Store of the subject systems and methods is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory. In addition it is to be appreciated that store can be a server a database a hard drive and the like.

The independent components may be used to further fill out or span an information space and the dependent components may be employed in combination to improve quality of common information recognizing that all sensor input data may be subject to error and or noise. In this context data fusion techniques employed by data fusion component may include algorithmic processing of sensor input data to compensate for inherent fragmentation of information because particular phenomena may not be observed directly using a single sensing input modality. Thus data fusion provides a suitable framework to facilitate condensing combining evaluating and or interpreting available sensed or received information in the context of a particular application.

In view of the foregoing it is readily apparent that utilization of the context component to consider and analyze extrinsic information can substantially facilitate determining meaning of sets of inputs.

Users can also interact with regions to select and provide information via various devices such as a mouse roller ball keypad keyboard and or voice activation for example. Typically the mechanism such as a push button or the enter key on the keyboard can be employed subsequent to entering the information in order to initiate for example a query. However it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not so limited. For example nearly highlighting a checkbox can initiate information conveyance. In another example a command line interface can be employed. For example the command line interface can prompt e.g. via text message on a display and an audio tone the user for information via a text message. The user can then provide suitable information such as alphanumeric input corresponding to an option provided in the interface prompt or an answer to a question posed in the prompt. It is to be appreciated that the command line interface can be employed in connection with a graphical user interface and or application programming interface API . In addition the command line interface can be employed in connection with hardware e.g. video cards and or displays e.g. black and white and EGA with limited graphic support and or low bandwidth communication channels.

In view of the exemplary systems shown and described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flow chart of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter. Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computers.

The claimed subject matter can be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more components. Generally program modules can include routines programs objects data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined and or distributed as desired in various aspects.

As used in this application the terms component and system are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical and or magnetic storage medium an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Artificial intelligence based systems e.g. explicitly and or implicitly trained classifiers can be employed in connection with performing inference and or probabilistic determinations and or statistical based determinations as in accordance with one or more aspects of the claimed subject matter as described hereinafter. As used herein the term inference infer or variations in form thereof refers generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines . . . can be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the claimed subject matter.

Furthermore all or portions of the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a system method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Some portions of the detailed description have been presented in terms of algorithms and or symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and or representations are the means employed by those cognizant in the art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others equally skilled. An algorithm is here generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of acts leading to a desired result. The acts are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Typically though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical and or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and or otherwise manipulated.

It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the foregoing discussion it is appreciated that throughout the disclosed subject matter discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining and or displaying and the like refer to the action and processes of computer systems and or similar consumer and or industrial electronic devices and or machines that manipulate and or transform data represented as physical electrical and or electronic quantities within the computer s and or machine s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the machine and or computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission and or display devices.

With reference to an exemplary environment for implementing various aspects disclosed herein includes a computer e.g. desktop laptop server hand held programmable consumer or industrial electronics . . . . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available microprocessors. It is to be appreciated that dual microprocessors multi core and other multiprocessor architectures can be employed as the processing unit .

The system memory includes volatile and nonvolatile memory. The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM . Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which can act as external cache memory to facilitate processing.

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example mass storage . Mass storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic or optical disk drive floppy disk drive flash memory or memory stick. In addition mass storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media.

The computer also includes one or more interface components that are communicatively coupled to the bus and facilitate interaction with the computer . By way of example the interface component can be a port e.g. serial parallel PCMCIA USB FireWire . . . or an interface card e.g. sound video network . . . or the like. The interface component can receive input and provide output wired or wirelessly . For instance input can be received from devices including but not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner camera other computer and the like. Output can also be supplied by the computer to output device s via interface component . Output devices can include displays e.g. CRT LCD plasma . . . speakers printers and other computers among other things.

Referring now to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of an exemplary computing environment for processing the disclosed architecture in accordance with another aspect. The system includes one or more client s . The client s can be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The client s can house cookie s and or associated contextual information by employing the claimed subject matter for example.

The system also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform transformations by employing the claimed subject matter for example. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The data packet may include a cookie and or associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. cookie s and or associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

What has been described above includes examples of the disclosed and claimed subject matter. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components and or methodologies but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the claimed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

