---

title: Method and system for health expense verification and processing
abstract: A method and system for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing includes a process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing whereby electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions is collected. The electronic data is then analyzed and health care expense transactions that are potentially eligible for reimbursement from a health care expense account are identified. The identified health care expense transactions are then verified as eligible health care expense transactions based on the electronic data collected and/or the source of the data. Data representing the verified health care expense transactions is then electronically and automatically made available to a health care expense account program administrator for immediate reimbursement processing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08392208&OS=08392208&RS=08392208
owner: Intuit Inc.
number: 08392208
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070129
---
Currently many employers offer health care expense account programs in addition to traditional health care insurance. Herein health care expense account programs are defined as programs which provide an employee and or employee dependents a designated health care expense account that is assigned to the employee and is used to reimburse the employee for defined eligible health care expenses incurred by the employee and or the employee s dependents. Examples of currently available health care expense account programs include but are not limited to flexible spending accounts FSAs health care reimbursement arrangements HRAs and health care spending accounts HSAs .

In many cases the health care expense account is a virtual account maintained by a health care expense program administrator or management service also called a program administrator either under the direct control of the employer or as a third party agent of the employer. In other cases the health care expense account is set up by the employees themselves. Typically health care expense accounts are funded by either by the employee and or the employer.

Health care expense account programs typically help the employee pay health care expenses that are not covered by the employees health care insurance such as deductibles the employee s portion of health care expenses co payments for doctors visits and prescriptions co payments for medical supplies and devices extended care and or home care and various other health care expenses determined to be eligible by the employer and or health care expense program administrator and or the IRS.

In typical operation funds are deposited in the health care expense account by the employee the employer or a combination of both. Once the health care expense account is funded the funds are made available to reimburse the employee for out of pocket expenses incurred by the employee in eligible health care expense transactions. In most cases the employee first pays the health care expense using his or her own funds. Then the employee makes a request to the program administrator for reimbursement of the funds. The employee should then eventually be reimbursed for his or her out of pocket expenses from the health care expense account. In other cases as discussed below the employee use specially dedicated debit credit cards that are directly linked to the health care expense account and or track health care expense transactions. In other cases the health care expense is paid with specially dedicated debit credit cards that are directly linked to the health care expense account and then the health care expense must be substantiated using a receipt bill or explanation of benefits document.

The process above sounds simple enough. However in reality the process of making a request to the program administrator for reimbursement of funds typically requires the employee to gather and store documentation i.e. receipts invoices explanation of benefits EOBs and or numerous other documents from various sources showing not only that the employee paid the health care expense but also showing that the health care expense itself was an eligible health care expense. Then the employee must typically fill out one or more reimbursement request forms to formally request reimbursement. The reimbursement request form s must then be submitted by the employee to the program administrator along with copies of the supporting documentation. For many employees this is a daunting and burdensome task. This is especially true since in many cases individual eligible health care expenses are often only a few dollars such as a 10.00 co pay for a doctor visit or prescription. However in many cases large numbers of individual eligible health care expenses are incurred by the employee and or the employee s dependents over the course of a year. Consequently many employees are required to obtain save copy fill out and submit a burdensome number of documents in order to receive reimbursement for relatively small sums of money. As a result many employees feel the paperwork burden exceeds the value of the program and the intended employment benefit comes to be viewed by the employee as an employment burden . This fact serves neither the employee nor the employer s best interests.

In addition once the employee performs his or her part of the process the program administrator must now review the reimbursement requests and sort through the copies of the supporting documentation to first identify that a given health care expense was paid by the employee and then verify that the health care expense was an eligible health care expense. This information and documentation often in the form of paper copies must then be entered into the program administrator s system which typically involves redundant data entry and or processing time.

In most cases once a given health care expense is identified authenticated and verified as an eligible health care expense by the program administrator and it is determined that the employee has a sufficient balance in the health care expense account to cover the eligible health care expense then and only then is the employee is reimbursed for his or her out of pocket costs associated with the health care expense transaction.

The process described above is not only burdensome and costly to both the employee and program administrator but is also presents multiple opportunities for the introduction of human error and the introduction of bureaucratic mistakes and inefficiencies. Consequently neither the employee the employer nor the program administrators are well served by the process described above.

As mentioned above in an effort to mitigate some of the problems described above some health care expense account programs currently provide dedicated debit credit cards that are directly linked to the health care expense account and or track health care expense transactions. In some instances these dedicated debit credit cards are used to verify health care expense transactions and in some cases directly access health care expense account funds. However in order to obtain the full benefit of the dedicated debit credit card the health care expense must typically be incurred with specific seller health care providers that have a pre existing relationship with the health care expense account program administrator. Consequently programs providing dedicated health care expense account debit credit cards are at best inconvenient in that they require the employee to carry a separate dedicated debit credit card and in many cases highly restrictive in that the debit credit card is only helpful when used with specific sellers health care providers.

In other cases the health care expense is paid with specially dedicated debit credit cards that is directly linked to the health care expense account and then the health care expense must still be substantiated using a receipt bill or explanation of benefits document.

In accordance with one embodiment a method and system for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing includes a process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing whereby electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions is collected. The electronic data is then analyzed and health care expense transactions that are potentially eligible for reimbursement from a health care expense account are identified. The identified health care expense transactions are then verified as eligible health care expense transactions based on the electronic data collected and or the source of the electronic data. Data representing the verified health care expense transactions is then electronically and in one embodiment automatically made available to a health care expense account program administrator for immediate reimbursement processing.

In one embodiment the electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions is collected from electronically transferred Explanation of Benefits EOB data provided by health insurance providers.

In one embodiment the electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions is collected from the employee user by the employee user scanning paper forms of verification such as bills receipts EOBs etc. in to a computing system and then electronically transferring the data.

In one embodiment the electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions is collected through electronically transferred invoices patient bills provided by health care providers. In one embodiment the electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions is collected from electronic transaction data maintained by banks and or credit account providers. In one embodiment the electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions is collected from electronic receipts provided by suppliers of medications and or medical devices and or supplies. In one embodiment the electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions is collected from any combination of the above sources and or from any other source of electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions whether known at the time of filing or as developed thereafter.

In one embodiment once the electronic data is collected the data is then analyzed and eligible health care expense transactions are identified and verified. In one embodiment electronically transferred EOB data provided by health insurance providers is analyzed to identify an employee s portion of payments made and or any co payments made by the employee. In one embodiment the eligible health care expense transactions are then considered verified based on the source of the data. In one embodiment electronically transferred invoices patient bills provided by health care providers are analyzed to identify the amount billed directly to the employee by the health care providers. In one embodiment the eligible health care expense transactions are then considered verified based on the source of the data.

In one embodiment electronic transaction data maintained by banks and or credit account providers is obtained and analyzed to identify potential health care expense transactions based on an assigned category of transaction and or the merchant paid through the transaction. In one embodiment the electronic transaction data maintained by banks and or credit account providers is analyzed to identify potential health care expense transactions and or verify the eligible health care expense transactions based on level 3 transaction data identifying specific items purchased the provider of such items the date of purchase and the price paid by the employee. In one embodiment the electronic receipts provided by suppliers of medications and or medical devices supplies such as drug stores pharmacies medical supply companies etc. are obtained and analyzed to identify potential health care expense transactions. The health care expense transactions are then verified based on receipt data identifying specific items purchased the date of purchase the provider of such items and the price paid by the employee.

In one embodiment the electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions is analyzed and eligible health care expense transactions are identified and verified by any combination of the methods described above and or any other method of scanning electronic data to identify and verify eligible health care expense transactions whether known at the time of filing or as developed thereafter.

In one embodiment eligible health care expense transactions are further verified by checking the subject matter and or purchase items associated with the health care expense transactions against a listing of eligible or non eligible health care expenses. In one embodiment the listing of eligible or non eligible health care expenses is provided by the employer and or program administrator and or IRS.

In one embodiment eligible health care expense transactions are also verified and or authorized by the employee. In this embodiment the employee is provided a listing of potentially eligible health care expense transactions. The employee is then provided an opportunity to edit the list and or remove specific potentially eligible health care expense transactions from the listing prior to submission to the program administrator.

In one embodiment once one or more eligible health care expense transactions are identified and verified data representing the verified health care expense transactions is then electronically and in one embodiment automatically made available to a health care expense account program administrator as verified and authenticated health care expenses eligible for immediate reimbursement processing.

As discussed in more detail below using the below embodiments with little or no modification and or user input there is considerable flexibility adaptability and opportunity for customization to meet the specific needs of various users under numerous circumstances.

Common reference numerals are used throughout the FIG.s and the detailed description to indicate like elements. One skilled in the art will readily recognize that the above FIG.s are examples and that other architectures modes of operation orders of operation and elements functions can be provided and implemented without departing from the characteristics and features of the invention as set forth in the claims.

Embodiments will now be discussed with reference to the accompanying FIG.s which depict one or more exemplary embodiments. Embodiments may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein shown in the FIG.s and or described below. Rather these exemplary embodiments are provided to allow a complete disclosure that conveys the principles of the invention as set forth in the claims to those of skill in the art.

In accordance with one embodiment a method and system for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing includes a process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing whereby electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions is collected. The electronic data is then analyzed and health care expense transactions that are potentially eligible for reimbursement from a health care expense account are identified. The identified health care expense transactions are then verified as eligible health care expense transactions based on the electronic data collected and or the source of the electronic data. Data representing the verified health care expense transactions is then electronically and in one embodiment automatically made available to a health care expense account program administrator for immediate reimbursement processing.

Using the method and system for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing and the process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing disclosed herein eligible health care expense transaction data and the supporting documentation data for those transactions is electronically collected identified and verified with little or no consumer employee action being required. The identified and verified health care expense transaction data is then made available to the program administrators in electronic form as identified and verified health care expenses eligible for reimbursement. As a result the process of identifying documenting and verifying eligible health care expenses is significantly less burdensome for both the employee and the program administrator. In addition there are far fewer opportunities for human error and or bureaucratic mistakes and inefficiencies.

Using the method and system for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing and the process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing disclosed herein no special and or dedicated debit credit cards are required and the employee is free to use any form of payment desired and the health care expense transactions can be conducted through any seller and or health care provider of the employee s choice. Consequently the method and system for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing and the process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing disclosed herein provides increased flexibility and imposes minimal operational limitations and burdens on the employee.

Using the method and system for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing and the process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing disclosed herein the employee receives the full benefit of the health care expense account program without the burdensome paperwork the program administrators are provided pre verified data that can be directly used to process reimbursements thereby cutting the program administrator s workload and the employer s cost of administrating the program and by providing a program having greater value to the employees the employer gets the full intended benefit of providing the health care expense account program at the reduced cost.

Some embodiments are implemented in a computing system including a conventional computing system running a conventional operating system such as those distributed by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. any Unix operating system any Linux operating system the Palm OS series of operating systems or any other operating system designed to generally manage operations on a computing system whether known at the time of filing or as developed later. Some embodiments are implemented in a mobile computing system running mobile operating systems such as Symbian OS Windows Mobile or any other operating system designed to generally manage operations on a mobile computing system whether known at the time of filing or as developed later. As described more fully below embodiments can be implemented on computing systems other than a conventional computing system such as for example a personal digital assistant a cell phone or other computing system capable of processing computer readable data whether known at the time of filing or as developed later. Computing systems also include those in which one or more computing resources hardware or software are located remotely and accessed via network such as a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN a public network such as the Internet a private network a combination of network types a computing system bus or other electronic medium in which data may be exchanged between one computing system and one or more other computing system s whether known at the time of filing or as developed later. Embodiments may be included as add on software for existing software programs packages or applications and embodiments may be a feature of an application that is bundled with a computing system or sold separately. Some embodiments may also be implemented as functionality embedded in hardware devices and systems.

Output generated by one or more embodiments can be displayed on a display screen transmitted to a remote device stored on any database computer server or other storage mechanism printed or used in any other way. In addition in some embodiments processes and or systems described herein may make use of input provided to the computer device implementing a process and or application discussed herein via user interface devices such as a keyboard mouse touchpad or any other device capable of providing user input to a computing system or for translating user actions into computing system operations whether known at the time of filing or as developed later.

As seen in computing system typically includes a central processing unit CPU hereinafter processor an input output I O interface and a memory system including cache memory A. In one embodiment memory system includes all or part of a process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing.

Computing system may further include standard user interface devices such as a keyboard a mouse a printer and a display device as well as one or more standard input output I O devices such as a compact disk CD or DVD drive floppy disk drive or other digital or waveform port or other device capable of inputting data to and outputting data from computing system whether known at the time of filing or as later developed. As discussed in more detail below in one embodiment a process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing can be loaded in whole or in part into computing system via I O device such as from a CD DVD or floppy disk containing all or part of a process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing.

Also shown in is database . In one embodiment database is a designated server system or computing system or a designated potion of a server system or computing system such as computing systems and . In one embodiment database is a dedicated mass storage device implemented in software hardware or a combination of hardware and software. In one embodiment database is a web based function. As discussed in more detail below in one embodiment a process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing is stored in whole or in part in database .

In one embodiment computing system and database are coupled to a server system by network . Server system typically includes a server system display device a server system processor a server system memory and a server system network interface . As discussed in more detail below in one embodiment a process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing is stored in whole or in part in server system .

Network can be any network or network system that is of interest to a user such as a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a public network such as the Internet a private network a combination of network types or other network capable of allowing communication between two or more computing systems whether known at the time of filing or as later developed. In various embodiments server system network interface and I O interface include analog modems digital modems a network interface card a broadband connection or any other means for communicably coupling computing system database and server system via network whether known at the time of filing or as later developed.

Those of skill in the art will readily recognize that the components shown in such as computing system database server system and their respective components are shown for illustrative purposes only and that architectures with more or fewer components can implement and benefit from a process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing such as processes for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing and discussed below. Moreover one or more components of computing system database and server system may be located remotely from their respective system and accessed via network as discussed herein. In addition the particular type of and configuration of computing systems database and server system are not relevant.

As discussed in more detail below in one embodiment a process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing is stored in whole or in part in memory system and or cache memory A of computing system and or in server memory system of server system and or in database and executed on computing system . As used herein a memory refers to a volatile memory a non volatile memory or any combination of the two.

Although a process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing can sometimes be referred to herein alternatively as a process an application a module a program a component of a software system a component of a software package a component of a parent system or a feature of a parent system this terminology is illustrative only. In some embodiments a process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing is capable of being called from an application or the operating system. In one embodiment an application or program is generally defined to be any executable code. Moreover those of skill in the art will understand that when it is said that an application or an operation takes some action the action is the result of executing one or more instructions by a processor such as processor or server system processor . In one embodiment execution of a process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing by processor or server system processor results in the operations of an agent computer process not shown and or a rule computer process not shown .

In one embodiment a process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing is a computer application or process implemented and or run and or stored in full or in part in or on a computer program product. Herein a computer program product comprises a medium configured to store and or transport computer readable code whether known at the time of filing or as later developed. Some examples of computer program products are CD ROM discs DVDs ROM cards floppy discs magnetic tapes computer hard drives servers on a network such as server system of and signals transmitted over a network such as network of or other media or process capable of delivering computer readable data representing computer readable code whether known at the time of filing or as later developed. This medium may belong to a computing system such as computing system of described above. However the medium also may be removed from the computing system.

For example all or part of a process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing may be stored in a memory that is physically located in a location such as server system memory or database of different from a computing system such as computing system of utilizing a process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing. In one embodiment all or part of a process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing may be stored in a memory that is physically located separate from the computing system s processor s such as processor of and the computing system processor s can be coupled to the memory in a client server system such as server system of or alternatively via connection to another computer such as computing system of via modems and analog lines digital interfaces and a digital carrier line or wireless or cellular connections.

In one embodiment the computing systems and or server system such as computing system and or server system of running and or utilizing and or storing all or part of a process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing is a portable computer a workstation two way pager a cellular telephone a smart phone a digital wireless telephone a personal digital assistant a server computer an Internet appliance or any other device that includes components that can execute all or part of a process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing in accordance with at least one of the embodiments as described herein. Similarly in another embodiment a process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing is implemented on and or run and or stored on a computing system and or server system that is comprised of multiple different computers wireless devices cellular telephones digital telephones two way pagers personal digital assistants server computers or any desired combination of these devices that are interconnected to perform the processes as described herein.

In accordance with one embodiment a method and system for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing includes a process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing whereby electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions is collected. The electronic data is then analyzed and health care expense transactions that are potentially eligible for reimbursement from a health care expense account are identified. The identified health care expense transactions are then verified as eligible health care expense transactions based on the electronic data collected and or the source of the electronic data. Data representing the verified health care expense transactions is then electronically and in one embodiment automatically made available to a health care expense account program administrator for immediate reimbursement processing.

Herein the terms employee user and or consumer are used interchangeably to denote the beneficiary of a health care expense account program and or the beneficiary s dependents and or designated agent of the employee. Herein the term employer is used to denote the party offering the health care expense account program as a benefit to the employee . Herein the terms program administrator program manager health care expense account program administrator and or health care expense account program manager are used interchangeably to denote the party charged with administrating processing and making payments associated with reimbursement requests from the employee .

In one embodiment at PROVIDE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM OPERATION an employer offers a health care expense account program to the employee. As noted above health care expense account programs are defined as programs which provide an employee and or employee dependents a designated health care expense account that is assigned to the employee and is used to reimburse the employee for defined eligible health care expenses.

As also noted above in many cases the health care expense account is a virtual account maintained by a health care expense program administrator or management service also called a program administrator either under the direct control of the employer or as a third party agent of the employer. In other cases the health care expense account is set up by the employees themselves. Typically health care expense accounts are funded by either the employee and or the employer using pre tax dollars.

As discussed above health care expense account programs typically help the employee pay health care expenses that are not covered by the employee s health care insurance. Examples of health care expenses that are typically eligible for reimbursement under a health care expense account program include but are not limited to health care insurance deductibles the employee s portion of health care expenses co payments for doctors visits and prescriptions co payments for medical supplies and devices extended care and or home care and various other health care expenses determined to be eligible by the employer and or health care expense program administrator.

In operation funds are deposited in the health care expense account by the employee the employer or a combination of both. Once the health care expense account is funded the funds are made available to reimburse the employee for out of pocket expenses incurred by the employee in eligible health care expense transactions. In most cases the employee first pays the health care expense using his or her own funds. Then the employee makes a request to program administrator for reimbursement of the funds. The employee is reimbursed for his or her out of pocket expenses from the health care expense account.

Examples of common health care expense account programs currently available include but are not limited to flexible spending accounts FSAs health care reimbursement arrangements HRAs and health care spending accounts HSAs . Each of these health care expense account programs operate to reimburse the employee for out of pocket expenses incurred by the employee in eligible health care expense transactions. However the funding lifespan and portability of these three programs vary.

For instance in a typical flexible spending account FSA program the employee must elect to deposit a specified pre tax dollar amount in the health care expense account i.e. the FSA to cover health care expenses that will occur over a predefined future period. For instance as one example the employee must elect to deposit a pre tax dollar amount specified by the employee to be paid into the health care expense account for pre tax reimbursement of all eligible health care expenses to be incurred in the next 12 months. In many cases the amount specified by the employee is paid by deducting a portion of the specified amount from the employee s compensation over multiple pay periods. In other cases the employer makes contributions to the FSA and the employer deposits funds in the health care expense account on a periodic basis.

Using a typical FSA it is important that an employee predict his or her total eligible health care expenses fairly accurately. This is because any funds not used to reimburse the employee for a transaction occurring within the predefined period i.e. unused funds are typically forfeited. Consequently an underestimate of the employee s total eligible health care expenses results in real post tax expense while an overestimate of the total eligible health care expenses results in forfeited pre tax money. FSAs are the most common form of health care expense account programs. Given the forfeiture feature of the typical FSA timely and accurate submission of reimbursement requests is critical.

A typical health care reimbursement arrangement HRA is very similar to an FSA except that the HRA account is typically funded by the employer and in many cases the health care expense account balance remains for employee to use as long as the employee is employed by the employer.

Health care spending accounts HSAs are a federal program whereby a user and or employer funds the health care spending account themselves with pre tax dollars. The user then reimburses himself or herself from the account for eligible health care expenses. A health care spending account remains the property of the user for life. However funds drawn from the health care spending account prior to the defined retirement age must be identified accounted for and verified through special tax documentation.

Any health care expense account program whether it be an FSA an HRA an HSA or any other health care expense account type program known at the time of filing or as developed thereafter can be used with and benefit from the processes for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing disclosed herein. In one embodiment once a health care expense account program is offered at PROVIDE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM OPERATION process flow proceeds to EMPLOYEE ELECTS TO PARTICIPATE IN THE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM AND THE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT IS FUNDED OPERATION .

In one embodiment at EMPLOYEE ELECTS TO PARTICIPATE IN THE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM AND THE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT IS FUNDED OPERATION an employee elects to participate in the health care expense account program of PROVIDE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM OPERATION . As a result of the election to participate a health care expense account is opened for the employee as described above and or the health care expense account is funded by one of the funding mechanisms also discussed above. In one embodiment once the employee elects to participate in the health care expense account program and a health care expense account is opened and or funded at EMPLOYEE ELECTS TO PARTICIPATE IN THE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM AND THE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT IS FUNDED OPERATION process flow proceeds to COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION .

In one embodiment at COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions is collected from one or more sources.

In one embodiment electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions is collected from electronically transferred Explanation of Benefits EOB data provided to process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing by a health insurance provider.

As required by law EOBs are forms that health insurance providers send insured parties for each benefit claim made by either the insured or the health care provider on behalf of the insured. EOBs include various types of information but typically include information as to the amount of a given claim information as to the amount paid by the health insurance provider on a given claim information regarding any amounts not paid on a given claim by the health insurance provider and why the amounts were not paid and information regarding any amounts not paid on a given claim by the health insurance provider that it is the responsibility of the insured or the responsible insured party i.e. the employee to pay.

According to one embodiment the health insurance providers transfer electronic copies of the EOBs often in specific formats to the provider of process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing . In one embodiment electronic copies of the EOB data are created and the data is stored in whole or in part in a database maintained by accessible by owned by or otherwise related to a provider of process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing and or the health insurance provider by any one of the numerous mechanisms known to those of skill in the art. For instance in one embodiment the data in whole or in part is stored in a memory system such as memory system or server memory system or database of or in a cache memory such as cache memory A of or in any main memory or mass memory associated with a computing device such as computing system described above. In one embodiment the data in whole or in part is stored in any computing device and or server system such as computing system or server system or other device in another location or on in a computer readable medium and or any other computer program product as defined herein. In one embodiment the data in whole or in part is stored on a webpage in a web based system or on a public network such as the Internet. Returning to in some embodiments the data stored as described above is maintained in whole or in part by the provider of process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing the health insurance provider a third party data storage institution any third party service or institution or any other parties. In these embodiments access to the EOB data is then granted to the provider of process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing at COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION by providing access to the data and or providing the data on a computer program product.

In other embodiments the EOB data is provided through a network of computing systems and or server systems that is comprised of multiple different computers wireless devices cellular telephones digital telephones two way pagers personal digital assistants server computers or any desired combination of these devices that are interconnected using a network such as network of . As discussed above network can be any network or network system that is of interest to a user such as a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a public network such as the Internet a private network a combination of network types or other network capable of allowing communication between two or more computing systems whether available or known at the time of filing or as later developed.

In other embodiments the EOB data is provided through e mail or through text messaging. In other embodiments the EOB data is provided to process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing through any method apparatus process or mechanism for transferring data and or text from one or more devices computing systems server systems databases web site web functions and or any devices having a data storage capability to one or more other devices computing systems server systems databases web site web functions and or any devices having a data storage capability whether known at he time of filing or as thereafter developed.

Returning to in one embodiment the electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions is collected through electronically transferred invoices patient bills and or claim data provided to process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing by health care providers such as hospitals and or doctors and or other medical service personnel.

Invoices submitted to the patient employee by the health care providers such as hospitals and or doctors typically include total cost billed as well as the expected patient employee s share of that cost. In addition copies of clams made to the health insurance providers often include this same information.

According to one embodiment the health care providers transfer electronic copies of the invoices claims often in specific formats to the provider of process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing . In one embodiment electronic copies of the invoice claim data are created and the data is stored in whole or in part in a database maintained by accessible by owned by or otherwise related to a provider of process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing and or the health care provider by any one of the numerous mechanisms known to those of skill in the art. For instance in one embodiment the data in whole or in part is stored in a memory system such as memory system or server memory system or database of or in a cache memory such as cache memory A of or in any main memory or mass memory associated with a computing device such as computing system described above. In one embodiment the data in whole or in part is stored in any computing device and or server system such as computing system or server system or other device in another location or on in a computer readable medium and or any other computer program product as defined herein. In one embodiment the data in whole or in part is stored on a webpage in a web based system or on a public network such as the Internet.

Returning to in some embodiments the data stored as described above is maintained in whole or in part by the provider of process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing the health care provider a third party data storage institution any third party service or institution or any other parties. In these embodiments access to the invoice claim data is then granted to the provider of process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing at COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION by providing access to the data and or providing the data on a computer program product.

In other embodiments the invoice claim data is provided through a network of computing systems and or server systems that is comprised of multiple different computers wireless devices cellular telephones digital telephones two way pagers personal digital assistants server computers or any desired combination of these devices that are interconnected using a network such as network of . As discussed above network can be any network or network system that is of interest to a user such as a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a public network such as the Internet a private network a combination of network types or other network capable of allowing communication between two or more computing systems whether available or known at the time of filing or as later developed.

Returning to in other embodiments the invoice claim data is provided through e mail or through text messaging. In other embodiments the invoice claim data is provided to process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing through any method apparatus process or mechanism for transferring data and or text from one or more devices computing systems server systems databases web site web functions and or any devices having a data storage capability to one or more other devices computing systems server systems databases web site web functions and or any devices having a data storage capability whether known at he time of filing or as thereafter developed.

In one embodiment the electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions is collected from electronic transaction data maintained by banks and or credit account providers.

In one embodiment access to historical payment transaction data for the employee is obtained typically in electronic format by one of numerous methods known to those of skill in the art.

In one embodiment the historical payment data is obtained from a financial institution such as a bank or credit union using the Open Financial Exchange OFX specification. OFX is a specification for the electronic exchange of financial data between financial institutions businesses consumers and other users and user processes such process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing or a parent system implementing process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing via the Internet. OFX was created in early 1997 and is well known to those of skill in the art. OFX supports a wide range of financial activities including consumer and small business banking consumer and small business bill payment bill presentment payment history displays and investments tracking including stocks bonds mutual funds 401 k and bank account details. OFX enables transactional permissive data feed driven Web sites such as bank websites thin clients and financial software systems to operate and communicate easily seamlessly and securely. Consequently in one embodiment using OFX historical payment data can be made readily available to process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing and or a parent system implementing process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing at COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION .

As noted the OFX specification is well known to those of skill in the art and is publicly available for implementation by any financial institution or vendor. As of March 2004 OFX is supported by over 2000 banks and brokerages as well as major payroll processing companies. The latest version of OFX is 2.0.2.

In one embodiment the historical payment data is obtained from a financial institution such as a bank or union using any other method for accessing the historical payment history and allowing COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION to scan the data as described below including manual entry of the data. In one embodiment process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing is part of a parent personal health expense management financial business financial accounting or tax preparation software system program package or application that implements a process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing such as process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing as one of multiple features. Some of these parent systems have the capability to gather payment data often using OFX and then store the data for use by process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing in one of numerous locations by one of numerous methods known to those of skill in the art.

In some embodiments the historical payment data is obtained by accessing data already stored in another system or from a memory system such as memory system or server memory system or database of or in a cache memory such as cache memory A of or in any main memory or mass memory associated with a computing system such as computing system described above. In one embodiment the data in whole or in part is stored in any computing system and or server system such as computing system or server system or other device in another location or on in computer readable medium and or any other computer program product as defined herein. In one embodiment the data in whole or in part is stored on a webpage or in a web based system.

Returning to in some embodiments the means for storing the data described above is maintained in whole or in part by the user or a user computing system the financial institution the provider of process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing the provider of a parent system or any other parties.

As noted above several methods for obtaining historical payment data including data representing health care expense transactions from electronic transaction data maintained by banks and or credit account providers are well known to those of skill in the art. Consequently these various methods for obtaining historical payment data are not discussed further herein to avoid detracting from the disclosure.

In one embodiment the electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions is collected from electronic receipts provided by suppliers of medications and or medical devices and or supplies. According to one embodiment the suppliers transfer electronic copies of the receipts often in specific formats to the provider of process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing . In one embodiment electronic copies of the receipt data are created and the data is stored in whole or in part in a database maintained by accessible by owned by or otherwise related to a provider of process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing and or the suppliers by any one of the numerous mechanisms known to those of skill in the art. For instance in one embodiment the data in whole or in part is stored in a memory system such as memory system or server memory system or database of or in a cache memory such as cache memory A of or in any main memory or mass memory associated with a computing device such as computing system described above. In one embodiment the data in whole or in part is stored in any computing device and or server system such as computing system or server system or other device in another location or on in a computer readable medium and or any other computer program product as defined herein. In one embodiment the data in whole or in part is stored on a webpage in a web based system or on a public network such as the Internet. In some embodiments the data stored as described above is maintained in whole or in part by the provider of process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing the suppliers a third party data storage institution any third party service or institution or any other parties. Returning to in these embodiments access to the receipt data is then granted to the provider of process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing at COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION by providing access to the data and or providing the data on a computer program product.

In other embodiments the receipt data is provided through a network of computing systems and or server systems that is comprised of multiple different computers wireless devices cellular telephones digital telephones two way pagers personal digital assistants server computers or any desired combination of these devices that are interconnected using a network such as network of . As discussed above network can be any network or network system that is of interest to a user such as a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a public network such as the Internet a private network a combination of network types or other network capable of allowing communication between two or more computing systems whether available or known at the time of filing or as later developed.

Returning to in other embodiments the receipt data is provided through e mail or through text messaging. In other embodiments the receipt data is provided to process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing through any method apparatus process or mechanism for transferring data and or text from one or more devices computing systems server systems databases web site web functions and or any devices having a data storage capability to one or more other devices computing systems server systems databases web site web functions and or any devices having a data storage capability whether known at he time of filing or as thereafter developed.

In some embodiments the electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions is collected at COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION from any combination of the above sources and or from any other source of electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions whether known at the time of filing or as developed thereafter.

In one embodiment once the electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions is collected the data is also saved at COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION by storing the data by any of the methods discussed herein and or known to those of skill in the art whether known a the time of filing or as developed later. In one embodiment once the electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions is collected from one or more of various sources at COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION process flow proceeds to IDENTIFY ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS VERIFY THE ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION .

In one embodiment at IDENTIFY ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS VERIFY THE ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION the electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions from COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION is analyzed to identify health care expense transactions that are potentially eligible for reimbursement through the health care expense account program. The identified health care expense transactions are then verified by various means dependent on the source of the electronic data.

In one embodiment the electronically transferred EOB data provided by health insurance providers at COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION is analyzed to identify the employee s portion of payments made to the health care provider and or any co payments made by the employee. In one embodiment the eligible health care expense transactions are then considered verified based on the fact the source of the data is the health insurance provider.

In one embodiment the electronically transferred invoices patient bills provided by health care providers at COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION are analyzed to identify the amount billed directly to the employee by the health care providers. In one embodiment the eligible health care expense transactions are then considered verified based again on the source of the data.

In one embodiment electronic transaction data maintained by banks and or credit account providers is obtained and analyzed to identify potential health care expense transactions based on an assigned category of transaction and or the merchant paid through the transaction. In one embodiment the electronic transaction data maintained by banks and or credit account providers is analyzed to identify potential health care expense transactions and or verify the eligible health care expense transactions using level 3 transaction data.

Level 3 transaction data refers to the ability to process detailed purchase information with the financial transaction. The supplemental information associated with level 3 transaction data typically includes data elements such as a customer employee code invoice and service order number part number item description quantity unit of measure unit price etc. Using level 3 data transactional details are provided that allow a determination as to exactly what was purchased and in this instance if the item and or service purchased represents an eligible health care expense. Consequently in one embodiment level 3 data is used to both identify and verify eligible health care expense transactions from the electronic transaction data maintained by banks and or credit account providers.

In one embodiment the electronic receipts provided by suppliers of medications and or medical devices supplies at COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION are analyzed to identify potential health care expense transactions. The health care expense transactions are then verified based on the seller and the item description on the receipt i.e. the data identifying specific items purchased the date of purchase and the price paid by the employee.

In one embodiment the electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions is analyzed and eligible health care expense transactions are identified and verified at IDENTIFY ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS VERIFY THE ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION by any combination of the methods described above and or any other method of scanning electronic data to identify and verify eligible health care expense transactions whether known at the time of filing or as developed thereafter.

In one embodiment once the electronic data is analyzed to identify health care expense transactions and the identified health care expense transactions are verified as eligible for reimbursement at IDENTIFY ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS VERIFY THE ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION process flow proceeds to TRANSFER IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTION DATA TO HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR OPERATION .

In one embodiment at TRANSFER IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTION DATA TO HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR OPERATION data representing the identified and verified eligible health care expense transactions is made available to the health care expense account program administrator also called a program administrator.

In one embodiment data representing the identified and verified eligible health care expense transactions is made available to the program administrator by storing the data in whole or in part in a database maintained by accessible by owned by or otherwise related to a provider of process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing and or provider of the health care expense account program by any one of the numerous mechanisms known to those of skill in the art. For instance in one embodiment the data in whole or in part is stored in a memory system such as memory system or server memory system or database of or in a cache memory such as cache memory A of or in any main memory or mass memory associated with a computing device such as computing system described above. In one embodiment the data in whole or in part is stored in any computing device and or server system such as computing system or server system or other device in another location or on in a computer readable medium and or any other computer program product as defined herein. In one embodiment the data in whole or in part is stored on a webpage in a web based system or on a public network such as the Internet.

In some embodiments the data stored as described above is maintained in whole or in part by the provider of process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing the provider of the health care expense account program a third party data storage institution any third party service or institution or any other parties.

Returning to in these embodiments the data representing the identified and verified eligible health care expense transactions is made available to the program administrator by granting the program administrator and or program administrators computing system access to the data and or providing the data on a computer program product.

In other embodiments data representing the identified and verified eligible health care expense transactions is provided to the program administrator through a network of computing systems and or server systems that is comprised of multiple different computers wireless devices cellular telephones digital telephones two way pagers personal digital assistants server computers or any desired combination of these devices that are interconnected using a network such as network of . As discussed above network can be any network or network system that is of interest to a user such as a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a public network such as the Internet a private network a combination of network types or other network capable of allowing communication between two or more computing systems whether available or known at the time of filing or as later developed.

Returning to in other embodiments the data representing the identified and verified eligible health care expense transactions is made available to the program administrator through e mail or through text messaging. In other embodiments the data representing the identified and verified eligible health care expense transactions is made available to the program administrator through any method apparatus process or mechanism for transferring data and or text from one or more devices computing systems server systems databases web site web functions and or any devices having a data storage capability to one or more other devices computing systems server systems databases web site web functions and or any devices having a data storage capability whether known at he time of filing or as thereafter developed.

In one embodiment the data representing the identified and verified eligible health care expense transactions is made available to the program administrator by automatically transferring the data to a program administrator s computing system and or storage device by any of the methods and or mechanisms discussed herein.

In one embodiment once the data representing the identified and verified eligible health care expense transactions is transferred to the program administrator the program administrator then processes the reimbursement. In one embodiment processing the reimbursement involves checking to ensure the balance in the employee s health care expense account is sufficient to cover the reimbursement. In cases where the health care expense account is funded over multiple pay periods as discussed above processing the reimbursement involves waiting until sufficient funds have been deposited into the employee s health care expense account and or paying out the reimbursement in installments as the funding of the employee s health care expense account is received 

In one embodiment once the data representing the identified and verified eligible health care expense transactions is transferred to the program administrator at TRANSFER IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTION DATA TO HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR OPERATION process flow proceeds to REIMBURSE EMPLOYEE FOR IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS UP TO PROGRAM LIMITS OPERATION .

In one embodiment at REIMBURSE EMPLOYEE FOR IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS UP TO PROGRAM LIMITS OPERATION the employee consumer is reimbursed as soon as funds are available in the employee s health care expense account as discussed above.

In one embodiment once the employee consumer is reimbursed or scheduled to be reimbursed at REIMBURSE EMPLOYEE FOR IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS UP TO PROGRAM LIMITS OPERATION process flow proceeds to EXIT OPERATION and process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing returns to COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION to await the next cycle and or transaction.

In one embodiment eligible health care expense transactions are further verified and or authenticated by checking the subject matter and or purchased items associated with the health care expense transactions against a listing of eligible or non eligible health care expenses. In one embodiment the listing of eligible or non eligible health care expenses is provided by the employer and or program administrator.

In one embodiment PROVIDE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM OPERATION EMPLOYEE ELECTS TO PARTICIPATE IN THE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM AND THE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT IS FUNDED OPERATION and COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION of and process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing are substantially identical to PROVIDE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM OPERATION EMPLOYEE ELECTS TO PARTICIPATE IN THE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM AND THE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT IS FUNDED OPERATION and COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION of and process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing discussed above. Consequently the discussion above of is applicable to and incorporated here for PROVIDE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM OPERATION EMPLOYEE ELECTS TO PARTICIPATE IN THE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM AND THE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT IS FUNDED OPERATION and COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION of and process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing .

In one embodiment once the electronic data including data representing health care expense transactions is collected from one or more sources at COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION process flow proceeds to OBTAIN ELIGIBILITY RESTRICTIONS FROM HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR OPERATION .

In one embodiment at OBTAIN ELIGIBILITY RESTRICTIONS FROM HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR OPERATION a listing of eligible or non eligible health care expenses is provided to process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing by the employer and or program administrator. As an example the employer and or program administrator may specifically exclude certain treatments types of treatments medications types of medications and or procedures from being eligible health care expenses under the health care expense account program.

In one embodiment the listing of eligible or non eligible health care expenses is provided to process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing by manual data entry. In one embodiment the listing of eligible or non eligible health care expenses is provided to process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing in an electronic data transfer by any of the methods and or means discussed herein.

In one embodiment once the listing of eligible or non eligible health care expenses is provided to process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing by the employer and or program administrator at OBTAIN ELIGIBILITY RESTRICTIONS FROM HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR OPERATION process flow proceeds to IDENTIFY ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS VERIFY THE ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION .

In one embodiment IDENTIFY ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS VERIFY THE ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION is substantially similar to IDENTIFY ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS VERIFY THE ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION discussed above with respect to and process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing . Consequently the discussion above with respect to IDENTIFY ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS VERIFY THE ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION is equally applicable to and is incorporated here for IDENTIFY ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS VERIFY THE ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION of .

In addition to performing the identification and verification conducted at IDENTIFY ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS VERIFY THE ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION of at IDENTIFY ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS VERIFY THE ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION of the identified potential eligible health care expense transactions are further verified by checking the subject matter and or purchase items associated with the health care expense transactions against the listing of eligible or non eligible health care expenses of OBTAIN ELIGIBILITY RESTRICTIONS FROM HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR OPERATION .

In one embodiment once the electronic data is analyzed to identify health care expense transactions that are potentially eligible for reimbursement and the identified health care expense transactions are verified and checked against the listing of eligible or non eligible health care expenses at IDENTIFY ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS VERIFY THE ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION process flow proceeds to TRANSFER IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS TO HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR OPERATION . TRANSFER IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS TO HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR OPERATION and REIMBURSE EMPLOYEE FOR IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS UP TO PROGRAM LIMITS OPERATION are substantially identical to TRANSFER IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTION DATA TO HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR OPERATION and REIMBURSE EMPLOYEE FOR IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS UP TO PROGRAM LIMITS OPERATION discussed above with respect to and process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing . Consequently the discussion above with respect to TRANSFER IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTION DATA TO HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR OPERATION and REIMBURSE EMPLOYEE FOR IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS UP TO PROGRAM LIMITS OPERATION is equally applicable to and is incorporated here for TRANSFER IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS TO HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR OPERATION and REIMBURSE EMPLOYEE FOR IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS UP TO PROGRAM LIMITS OPERATION of .

In one embodiment once the employee consumer is reimbursed or scheduled to be reimbursed at REIMBURSE EMPLOYEE FOR IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS UP TO PROGRAM LIMITS OPERATION process flow proceeds to EXIT OPERATION and process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing returns to COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION to await the next cycle and or transaction.

In one embodiment eligible health care expense transactions are also verified by the employee. In this embodiment the employee is provided a listing of potentially eligible health care expense transactions. The employee is then provided the opportunity to edit the list and or remove specific potentially eligible health care expense transactions from the listing prior to submission to the program administrator.

In one embodiment PROVIDE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM OPERATION EMPLOYEE ELECTS TO PARTICIPATE IN THE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM AND THE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT IS FUNDED OPERATION COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION and IDENTIFY ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS VERIFY THE ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION of process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing of are substantially identical to PROVIDE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM OPERATION EMPLOYEE ELECTS TO PARTICIPATE IN THE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM AND THE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT IS FUNDED OPERATION COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION and IDENTIFY ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS VERIFY THE ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION of and process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing discussed above. Consequently the discussion above of is applicable to and incorporated here for PROVIDE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM OPERATION EMPLOYEE ELECTS TO PARTICIPATE IN THE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM AND THE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT IS FUNDED OPERATION COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION and IDENTIFY ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS VERIFY THE ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION of and process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing .

In one embodiment once the electronic data is analyzed to identify health care expense transactions that are potentially eligible for reimbursement and the identified health care expense transactions are verified at IDENTIFY ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS VERIFY THE ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION process flow proceeds to PROVIDE EMPLOYEE WITH LISTING OF IDENTIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS FOR EMPLOYEE REVIEW APPROVAL OPERATION .

In one embodiment at PROVIDE EMPLOYEE WITH LISTING OF IDENTIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS FOR EMPLOYEE REVIEW APPROVAL OPERATION eligible health care expense transactions are also verified by the employee. In one embodiment once eligible health care expense transactions are identified the employee is presented with an eligible health care expense transactions report including a display and or listing of the eligible health care expense transactions. In one embodiment the employee is then provided the opportunity to edit the display list and or remove specific potentially eligible health care expense transactions from the listing and or report prior to submission to the program administrator.

The verification process at PROVIDE EMPLOYEE WITH LISTING OF IDENTIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS FOR EMPLOYEE REVIEW APPROVAL OPERATION affords the employee the opportunity to remove otherwise eligible health care expense transactions items from the reimbursement process. This might be used by the employee in an effort to maintain a desired balance in the health care expense account or to maintain a certain level of privacy or for any other reason the employee may have.

Once eligible health care expense transactions are verified by the employee at PROVIDE EMPLOYEE WITH LISTING OF IDENTIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS FOR EMPLOYEE REVIEW APPROVAL OPERATION process flow proceeds to TRANSFER IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS TO HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR OPERATION . TRANSFER IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS TO HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR OPERATION and REIMBURSE EMPLOYEE FOR IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS UP TO PROGRAM LIMITS OPERATION are substantially identical to TRANSFER IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTION DATA TO HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR OPERATION and REIMBURSE EMPLOYEE FOR IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS UP TO PROGRAM LIMITS OPERATION discussed above with respect to and process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing . Consequently the discussion above with respect to TRANSFER IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTION DATA TO HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR OPERATION and REIMBURSE EMPLOYEE FOR IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS UP TO PROGRAM LIMITS OPERATION is equally applicable to and is incorporated here for TRANSFER IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS TO HEALTH CARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR OPERATION and REIMBURSE EMPLOYEE FOR IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS UP TO PROGRAM LIMITS OPERATION of .

In one embodiment once the employee consumer is reimbursed or scheduled to be reimbursed at REIMBURSE EMPLOYEE FOR IDENTIFIED AND OR VERIFIED ELIGIBLE HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS UP TO PROGRAM LIMITS OPERATION process flow proceeds to EXIT OPERATION and process for health care expense verification and reimbursement processing returns to COLLECT ELECTRONIC DATA INCLUDING DATA REPRESENTING HEALTH CARE EXPENSE TRANSACTIONS OPERATION to await the next cycle and or transaction.

The present invention has been described in particular detail with respect to specific possible embodiments. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced in other embodiments. For example the nomenclature used for components capitalization of component designations and terms the attributes data structures or any other programming or structural aspect is not significant mandatory or limiting and the mechanisms that implement the invention or its features can have various different names formats and or protocols. Further the system and or functionality of the invention may be implemented via various combinations of software and hardware as described or entirely in hardware elements. Also particular divisions of functionality between the various components described herein is merely exemplary and not mandatory or significant. Consequently functions performed by a single component may in other embodiments be performed by multiple components and functions performed by multiple components may in other embodiments be performed by a single component.

Some portions of the above description present the features of the present invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations or algorithm like representations of operations on information data. These algorithmic and or algorithm like descriptions and representations are the means used by those of skill in the art to most effectively and efficiently convey the substance of their work to others of skill in the art. These operations while described functionally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs and or computing systems. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as steps or modules or by functional names without loss of generality.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as would be apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the above description discussions utilizing terms such as providing collecting identifying transferring storing etc. refer to the action and processes of a computing system or similar electronic device that manipulates and operates on data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computing system memories resisters caches or other information storage transmission or display devices.

Certain aspects of the present invention include process steps or operations and instructions described herein in an algorithmic and or algorithmic like form. It should be noted that the process steps and or operations and instructions of the present invention can be embodied in software firmware and or hardware and when embodied in software can be downloaded to reside on and be operated from different platforms used by real time network operating systems.

The present invention also relates to an apparatus or system for performing the operations described herein. This apparatus or system may be specifically constructed for the required purposes or the apparatus or system can comprise a general purpose system selectively activated or configured reconfigured by a computer program stored on a computer program product as defined herein that can be accessed by a computing system or other device.

Those of skill in the art will readily recognize that the algorithms and operations presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computing system computer architecture computer or industry standard or any other specific apparatus. Various general purpose systems may also be used with programs in accordance with the teaching herein or it may prove more convenient efficient to construct more specialized apparatuses to perform the required operations described herein. The required structure for a variety of these systems will be apparent to those of skill in the art along with equivalent variations. In addition the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language and it is appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the present invention as described herein and any references to a specific language or languages are provided for illustrative purposes only and for enablement of the contemplated best mode of the invention at the time of filing.

The present invention is well suited to a wide variety of computer network systems operating over numerous topologies. Within this field the configuration and management of large networks comprise storage devices and computers that are communicatively coupled to similar and or dissimilar computers and storage devices over a private network a LAN a WAN a private network or a public network such as the Internet.

It should also be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability clarity and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. Accordingly the disclosure of the present invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the claims below.

In addition the operations shown in the FIG.s are identified using a particular nomenclature for ease of description and understanding but other nomenclature is often used in the art to identify equivalent operations.

Therefore numerous variations whether explicitly provided for by the specification or implied by the specification or not may be implemented by one of skill in the art in view of this disclosure.

