---

title: Self-aligning liner support hanger
abstract: A self-aligning hanger for use in a gas turbine engine exhaust system comprises a first bracket, a second bracket, a rod, a first ball joint and a second ball joint. The first bracket is for connecting to an exhaust duct of the gas turbine exhaust system. The second bracket is for connecting to an exhaust duct liner of the gas turbine exhaust system. The rod extends between the first bracket and the second bracket. The first ball joint connects a first end of the rod with the first bracket. The second ball joint connects a second end of the rod with the second bracket.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07861535&OS=07861535&RS=07861535
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 07861535
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070924
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. HR0011 04 9 0009 awarded by Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA . The Government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates generally to gas turbine engines and more particularly to exhaust duct liner attachment systems and methods. In gas turbine engines it is necessary to protect exhaust ducts with an insulating shield in order to prevent heated core gases from damaging the exhaust ducts. Typically exhaust ducts are made from titanium based alloys and have temperature limits of approximately 300 F. 148.9 C. . Exhaust gases however reach much higher temperatures. It is therefore necessary to line exhaust ducts with a material that is capable of withstanding the peak temperatures of the core gases and that prevents the exhaust duct from reaching its temperature limitations. Exhaust duct liners are typically made from nickel based alloys which have temperature limits of approximately 700 F. 371.1 C. . In order to alleviate some of the heat from the exhaust gases imparted to the liner cooling air is passed between the exhaust duct and liner. Thus the exhaust duct and liner are subjected to different pressure and temperature gradients which results in differing deflection and expansion of each body.

The differing deflections and expansions of the exhaust duct and liner are exacerbated by particular aircraft requirements. For military aircraft it is sometimes desirable to have thrust vectoring capabilities or low radar signature profiles. Accordingly the exhaust duct and liner must be tailored to meet these requirements. For example thrust vectoring can be used for short take off vertical landing STOVL operations which requires repositioning of the exhaust duct and nozzle. Additionally low radar signature profiles require exhaust ducts to have streamlined shapes which often require complex profiles that vary along the length of the duct.

In order to maintain the desired temperature and pressure profile along the exhaust duct and liner it is necessary to maintain proper spacing between the exhaust duct and liner. The differing pressures temperatures and functional requirements of the exhaust duct however produce three dimensional forces between the duct and liner which tend to shift the liner out of alignment. There is therefore a need for an exhaust duct liner suspension system that maintains proper spacing between an exhaust duct and a duct liner while also permitting the liner to shift in other directions to accommodate among other things thermal growth.

The present invention is directed towards a self aligning hanger for use in a gas turbine engine exhaust system. The self aligning hanger comprises a first bracket a second bracket a rod a first ball joint and a second ball joint. The first bracket is for connecting to an exhaust duct of the gas turbine exhaust system. The second bracket is for connecting to an exhaust duct liner of the gas turbine exhaust system. The rod extends between the first bracket and the second bracket. The first ball joint connects a first end of the rod with the first bracket. The second ball joint connects a second end of the rod with the second bracket.

Exhaust gas G enters exhaust duct liner from the gas turbine engine at elevated temperatures and as such a temperature gradient is produced from upstream end to downstream end . Additionally since duct liner shields exhaust duct from exhaust gas G a temperature differential is produced between duct liner and exhaust duct . Thus exhaust duct and duct liner are subjected to differing temperature profiles during operation of the gas turbine engine which fluctuates as the gas turbine engine cycles up and cycles down while performing different maneuvers. Compounded by the difference in thermal expansion properties of exhaust duct and duct liner which can be up to about a factor of two for nickel and titanium exhaust duct and duct liner undergo significantly different thermal deformations in use. For example in the embodiment of exhaust duct liner comprises a single sheet liner having a length of approximately 180 inches 457.2 cm which results in thermal expansion of over 1 inch 2.54 cm which can produce a relative shift from exhaust duct of about 0.25 inches 0.635 cm in the axial direction and about 0.10 inches 0.254 cm in the transverse direction. Because of their complex shapes and differing materials exhaust duct and duct liner do not however undergo the same deformation which has a tendency to alter the spacing between exhaust duct and duct liner . It is necessary however to maintain the spacing between exhaust duct and duct liner in order to maintain proper cooling of exhaust system .

Cooling air C such as bleed air from the gas turbine engine compressor is routed between exhaust duct and duct liner to reduce the thermal effects of exhaust gas G. Exhaust gas G and cooling air C produce a pressure differential between the interior of exhaust duct and the interior of exhaust duct liner . For example pressure P of cooling air C is typically greater than both pressure P of exhaust gas G and pressure P of the ambient air. As such duct liner is subject to compressive forces and exhaust duct is subject to tensile forces. Exhaust duct is typically rigid and fixed in place as it extends through the fuselage of an aircraft and is thus mechanically restrained while duct liner is suspended within exhaust duct . Accordingly exhaust duct and duct liner are subjected to different mechanical and thermal loads when used in conjunction with a gas turbine engine. Support hanger is thus subjected to significant stresses as duct liner shifts within exhaust duct . Support hanger is however configured with spherical ball joints to permit multi axis shifting of duct liner in order to alleviate stress generated within support hanger . In one embodiment exhaust system includes as many as two hundred and forty self aligning support hangers which act to maintain duct liner spaced approximately 2 inches 5.08 cm from exhaust duct .

Liner bracket comprises base plate first flange and second flange . Rod includes first end which comprises threaded shaft and second end which comprises eye socket . Duct bracket comprises flange plate and collar . Base plate of liner bracket is rigidly connected to exhaust duct liner with for example threaded fasteners. Exhaust duct liner includes bores for aligning with bores of base plate . First flange and second flange extend radially outwardly from base plate and exhaust duct liner toward exhaust duct . Tie bolt comprises a pin or rod that spans the distance between first flange and second flange . Tie bolt comprises a pivot point for receiving first ball joint upon which eye socket of rod is permitted to rotate.

Flange plate of duct bracket is rigidly connected to exhaust duct with for example threaded fasteners. Exhaust duct includes bores for aligning with bores of flange plate . Duct bracket is configured such that collar extends radially inwardly from flange plate to point towards duct liner . Exhaust duct includes opening for accepting collar such that collar is recessed within exhaust duct and extends toward duct liner . Thus duct bracket does not extend far beyond the outer diameter of exhaust duct such that exhaust duct can be compactly positioned in an aircraft fuselage. Collar includes opening for connecting with second ball joint .

First ball joint comprises first ball socket which is disposed within eye socket and first ball which is disposed within ball socket . Ball which comprises a spherical ball bearing is disposed between first flange and second flange of liner bracket and includes center bore . Tie bolt is inserted into center bore and bores in first flange and second flange . Tie bolt which comprises a shaft or rod includes head and nut which prevent tie bolt from disengaging first flange and second flange . Typically tie bolt is force fit into first flange second flange and ball such that a rigid connection is formed. Ball socket is however permitted to rotate about the exterior of ball .

Second ball joint comprises second ball socket and second ball . Second ball socket is disposed within collar of duct bracket and second ball is disposed within second ball socket . Second ball which comprises a spherical ball bearing includes recessed bore which is recessed within second ball between first counterbore and second counterbore . Shaft at first end of rod is inserted into recessed bore . Shaft extends through recessed bore a sufficient distance such that nut can be properly torqued onto shaft . Shaft includes flange which is configured for insertion into either counterbore or counterbore such that flange abuts recessed bore . Counterbore extends into second ball deeper than counterbore such that recessed bore is not centered within second ball . Accordingly the position of recessed bore within collar is adjustable such that the distance rod extends from duct bracket can be adjusted. The adjustable position of recessed bore allows for manufacturing and assembly tolerance variance such that the distance between exhaust duct and duct liner can be maintained at a uniform distance using stock parts. For a 2 inch 5.08 cm nominal spacing between duct liner and exhaust duct an acceptable tolerance band is approximately 1.8 4.572 cm inches to about 2.2 5.588 cm inches. The distance between exhaust duct and duct liner can be further manipulated by placing shim between flange and recessed bore to keep the spacing within the tolerance band and near the nominal value. Shim comprises a washer or some other such spacer made of any suitable material to restrict the insertion of shaft into second ball . In one embodiment shim has a nominal thickness of approximately 30 1000 of an inch 0.0762 cm . Once second ball is oriented in the desired position and a properly sized shim if any is positioned around shaft shaft is inserted into recessed bore such that nut can be affixed to shaft to connect rod to exhaust duct .

As can be seen in first ball joint and second ball joint are oriented such that center axes of each ball joint are perpendicular to each other or offset ninety degrees from each other. Specifically shaft of rod extends through the center axis of second ball along the Y axis. Tie bolt extends through the center axis of first ball along the X axis. This not only assists in permitting multi axis movement of duct liner but results in a more compact hardier design of support hanger . First ball joint and second ball joint each bear loads from rod in radial and axial directions. Load bearing capability is greater in the radial direction rather than the axial direction. First ball joint and second ball joint are however taller in the radial direction rather than the axial direction. Furthermore the axial load can be increased by increasing the diameter of ball or ball . For these reasons second ball is designed to receive shaft in its axial configuration. As such second ball joint does not extend far beyond the exterior of exhaust duct but the diameter can be increased to achieve the desired axial load bearing strength. Accordingly second ball is larger than first ball . However the specific design and orientation of ball joints and can be varied based on design and space constraints. For example in another embodiment of the invention shaft of rod can be configured to extend through the center axis of second ball and first ball along the Y axis i.e. first ball joint can be configured similarly to second ball joint . In another embodiment of the invention second ball can be configured to receive a tie bolt that extends through the center axis of second ball along the X axis i.e. second ball joint can be configured similarly to first ball joint . Thus first ball joint and second ball joint can be configured such that center axes of each ball joint are parallel to or co linear with each other.

First ball joint and second ball joint permit rod to rotate at liner bracket and duct bracket . Exhaust duct is held in a fixed position through its attachment with the gas turbine engine and aircraft fuselage into which it is installed. A plurality of support hangers are used to suspend duct liner within exhaust duct such that each rod of the plurality of support hangers connects a local portion of exhaust duct to a local portion of duct liner . For each support hanger first ball joint is held at a fixed distance to second ball joint . However first ball joint and second ball joint permit duct liner to shift radially and axially within exhaust duct . Each local portion of duct liner is permitted to swing from rod due to ball joint and to rotate in three axes at duct liner due to ball joint . However through the cumulative effect of the plurality of support hangers used to hang duct liner within exhaust duct each local portion of duct liner is held at an approximate fixed distance from the local portion of exhaust duct as rod holds first ball joint at a fixed distance to second ball joint . A higher density of support hangers used to attach duct liner results in better uniformity of the spacing of duct liner .

Movement of duct liner is further facilitated by including liner material within each ball joint. Specifically first ball joint includes wear material and second ball joint includes wear material . Wear material and wear material comprise any low friction high wear resistant material that also has high temperature capability. Wear material and wear material act as lubrication barriers between first ball and first ball socket and second ball and second ball socket respectively. However the particular properties of the wear materials are selected based on design needs and the engine with which exhaust duct will be used. For example second ball is subjected to lower temperatures since it is spaced further away from duct liner but is however subjected to greater loads since second ball joint must support duct liner . Thus wear material which surrounds second ball may be comprised of a material having lower temperature capability but higher strength limitations than wear material which surrounds first ball . In one embodiment wear material and wear material comprise cloth material comprising weaved threads of Teflon material adhered to first ball and second ball respectively.

Any suitable material can be used for the various components of support hanger . Materials having low weight high strength and high temperature limits are particularly well suited for support hanger . Suitable materials include nickel and titanium based alloys such as Inconel 718 or various Hastelloy alloys. Additionally the specific size and dimensions of the various components of support hanger can be varied based on design needs to produce self aligning support hangers according to the present invention. Support hangers of the present invention provide a compact easily assembled and disassembled means for suspending a duct liner within an exhaust duct. Through the use of spherical ball bearings the support hanger permits axial and lateral movement of the duct liner within the exhaust duct while maintaining radial spacing between the exhaust duct and the duct liner within an acceptable tolerance band. The support hanger thus allows the duct liner to independently move and undergo thermal growth without unacceptably stressing the components of the support hanger or deforming the duct liner.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

