---

title: Safety for mitral valve implant
abstract: A heart valve implant may include a shaft extending generally along a longitudinal axis of the heart valve implant. A spacer may be coupled to the shaft between a first and a second end region of the shaft. The spacer may be configured to interact with at least a portion of at least one cusp of a heart valve to at least partially restrict a flow of blood through the heart valve in a closed position and at least one anchor may be configured to be coupled to the first end region of the shaft. At least one safety stop may extend generally radially outwardly from the longitudinal axis of the heart valve implant beyond at least a portion of an outer perimeter of the spacer. The safety stop may include a cross-section which is greater than a cross-section of the heart valve in at least one dimension. The safety stop may also be configured to at least partially restrict a movement of the heart valve implant with respect to the heart valve in at least one direction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08778017&OS=08778017&RS=08778017
owner: Cardiosolutions, Inc.
number: 08778017
owner_city: West Bridgewater
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070514
---
The subject application is a continuation in part of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 258 828 entitled Heart Valve Implant filed on Oct. 26 2005 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to the repair and or correction of dysfunctional heart valves and more particularly pertains to heart valve implants and systems and methods for delivery and implementation of the same.

A human heart has four chambers the left and right atrium and the left and right ventricles. The chambers of the heart alternately expand and contract to pump blood through the vessels of the body. The cycle of the heart includes the simultaneous contraction of the left and right atria passing blood from the atria to the left and right ventricles. The left and right ventricles then simultaneously contract forcing blood from the heart and through the vessels of the body. In addition to the four chambers the heart also includes a check valve at the upstream end of each chamber to ensure that blood flows in the correct direction through the body as the heart chambers expand and contract. These valves may become damaged or otherwise fail to function properly resulting in their inability to properly close when the downstream chamber contracts. Failure of the valves to properly close may allow blood to flow backward through the valve resulting in decreased blood flow and lower blood pressure.

Mitral regurgitation is a common variety of heart valve dysfunction or insufficiency. Mitral regurgitation occurs when the mitral valve separating the left coronary atrium and the left ventricle fails to properly close. As a result upon contraction of the left ventricle blood may leak or flow from the left ventricle back into the left atrium rather than being forced through the aorta. Any disorder that weakens or damages the mitral valve can prevent it from closing properly thereby causing leakage or regurgitation. Mitral regurgitation is considered to be chronic when the condition persists rather than occurring for only a short period of time.

Regardless of the cause mitral regurgitation may result in a decrease in blood flow through the body cardiac output . Correction of mitral regurgitation typically requires surgical intervention. Surgical valve repair or replacement is carried out as an open heart procedure. The repair or replacement surgery may last in the range of about three to five hours and is carried out with the patient under general anesthesia. The nature of the surgical procedure requires the patient to be placed on a heart lung machine. Because of the severity complexity danger associated with open heart surgical procedures corrective surgery for mitral regurgitation is typically not recommended until the patient s ejection fraction drops below 60 and or the left ventricle is larger than 45 mm at rest.

Referring to a perspective view of one embodiment of a mitral valve implant is depicted. As shown mitral valve implant may generally include a spacer or valve body portion which may be coupled to a shaft . The shaft may be coupled to at least one anchor portion configured to couple attach and or otherwise secure the mitral valve implant to native coronary tissue. In general at least a portion of the spacer may be configured to be disposed proximate a mitral valve such that the mitral valve implant may interact and or cooperate with at least a portion of the native mitral valve to reduce and or eliminate excessive regurgitation as illustrated in .

The mitral valve implant may also include one or more safety stops . The safety stops may at least partially reduce restrict and or prevent the mitral valve implant from moving away from the mitral valve area in at least one direction should the anchor portion become dislodged or allows excessive movement of the mitral valve implant . The safety stops may be configured to extend generally radially outwardly from the longitudinal axis L of mitral valve implant beyond at least a portion of an outer perimeter of the spacer such that the safety stops may at least partially reduce restrict and or prevent the mitral valve implant from moving away from the mitral valve area in at least one direction. According to one aspect the safety stops may define an outer perimeter and or cross section that is larger in at least one direction than the mitral valve . For example the safety stops may define an outer perimeter and or cross section that is larger in at least one direction than the perimeter and or cross section of the spacer .

For example the safety stops may be configured to reduce and or prevent the mitral valve implant from moving through the mitral valve in at least one direction. According to this embodiment the safety stop may allow a portion of the mitral valve implant to move with respect to the mitral valve however the safety stop may prevent restrict and or reduce the ability of the entire mitral valve implant from passing through the mitral valve . It should be noted that the safety stops need only prevent restrict and or reduce the mitral valve implant from passing through the mitral valve . The safety stop does not necessarily have to restrict the movement of the mitral valve implant sufficiently to allow the mitral valve implant may to continue to interact and or cooperate with the mitral valve leaflets and reduce and or eliminate excessive regurgitation. In other words the safety stop may allow the mitral valve implant to move such that the mitral valve implant no longer interacts and or cooperates with the mitral valve leaflets and no longer reduces and or eliminates excessive regurgitation. The safety stop according to this aspect need only prevent restrict and or reduce the mitral valve implant from passing through the mitral valve .

Additionally or alternatively the safety stops may be configured to sufficiently reduce restrict and or prevent the movement of the mitral valve implant and in particular the spacer such that the spacer may continue to interact and or cooperate with at least a portion of the mitral valve to reduce and or eliminate excessive regurgitation. It should be noted that the safety stops do not necessarily have to be configured to prevent the mitral valve implant from moving at all or from moving away from an original preferred or optimized position with respect to the mitral valve . As such the safety stops may allow the mitral valve implant to move with respect to the mitral valve as long as a minimum degree of interaction and or cooperation exists between the mitral valve implant and at least a portion of the mitral valve leaflets . The minimum degree of interaction and or cooperation between the mitral valve implant and at least a portion of the mitral valve leaflets may vary and may be determined experimentally.

As shown in the mitral valve implant may include at least one safety stop disposed generally above the spacer . For example the mitral valve implant may include a safety stop extending generally radially outwardly from the longitudinal axis L of mitral valve implant along at least a portion of the shaft . As used herein the term above the spacer refers to a portion of the mitral valve implant between spacer and a first end of the mitral valve implant which is intended to be disposed proximate the atrium e.g. the left atrium . The safety stop may be disposed proximate the distal portion of the first end of the shaft as shown however the safety stop may be disposed anywhere along the portion of the mitral valve implant between spacer and the distal portion of the first end of the shaft . For example the safety stop may be disposed proximate the spacer . As shown in the safety stop may be configured to be disposed generally within the left ventricle .

Referring to the mitral valve implant may include at least one safety stop disposed generally below the spacer . As used herein the term below the spacer refers to a portion of the mitral valve implant between spacer and a second end of the mitral valve implant which is intended to be disposed proximate the ventricle e.g. the left ventricle . For example the mitral valve implant may include a safety stop extending generally radially outwardly from the longitudinal axis L of mitral valve implant along at least a portion of the shaft . As shown in the safety stop may be configured to be disposed generally within the left atrium . While the mitral valve implant is shown having safety stops disposed above and below the spacer the mitral valve implant may include only the safety stop

Alternatively or in addition the mitral valve implant may include a safety stop extending generally radially outwardly from the longitudinal axis L of mitral valve implant about the anchor portion . The safety stop may be disposed proximate the shaft however one or more safety stops may be disposed along other positions of the anchor portion . Again while the mitral valve implant is shown having safety stops disposed above and below the spacer the mitral valve implant may include only the safety stop

Referring to the mitral valve implant may include at least one safety stop extending generally radially outwardly from the longitudinal axis L of mitral valve implant along the spacer . According to one embodiment the safety stop may be disposed proximate either the first or the second ends of the mitral valve implant . Placing the safety stop proximate either the first or second ends of the mitral valve implant may increase the surface available to the spacer to interact and or cooperate with the mitral valve leaflets to reduce and or eliminate excessive regurgitation and may reduce the likelihood of the safety stop from preventing the spacer from interacting and or cooperating with the mitral valve leaflets to reduce and or eliminate excessive regurgitation.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that while the mitral valve implant in are shown in combination with the safety stop disposed above the spacer the mitral valve implant does not necessarily have to include the safety stop . The mitral valve implant may include one or more or a combination of two or more of the safety stops 

As discussed above the safety stops may reduce and or prevent the mitral valve implant from moving away from the mitral valve area should the anchor portion become dislodged or allows excessive movement of the mitral valve implant . For example the safety stops may define an outer perimeter and or cross section that is larger in at least one direction than the mitral valve . As such the safety stop may include a variety a configurations and or geometries depending on the intended application. The safety stop may be shaped to facilitate the flow of blood from the left atrium to the left ventricle when the mitral valve is open. The safety stop may have a generally streamlined shape allowing the smooth flow of blood around the safety stop . Other embodiments of the mitral valve implant may provide less consideration for the flow characteristics of blood flowing around the safety stop .

According to one aspect the safety stop may have a generally annular ring like shape and may define an outer perimeter extending approximately 360 degrees around the radius of the mitral valve implant . For example the safety stop may include a generally circular oval or elliptical outer perimeter as generally shown in . In any event the outer perimeter of the safety stop may be configured to restrict the movement of the mitral valve implant through the mitral valve . The safety stop may be configured to be mounted attached coupled or otherwise secured to the mitral valve implant using one or more spokes ribs stringers or supports . As such the safety stop may form a generally open frame like structure. Alternatively or in addition the safety stop may be configured as a substantially solid geometry or shape. According to one embodiment the safety stop may include a generally solid disc like structure. The substantially solid geometry safety stop may optionally include one or more apertures or openings that allow fluid to pass through the safety stop .

The safety stop may also include one or more segments or components extending generally radially outwardly from the mitral valve implant as shown in . Each segment may extend generally outwardly less than 360 degrees along the radius of the mitral valve implant . For example the safety stop may include a single segment as shown in . The single segment may extend generally radially outwardly less than 360 degrees along the radius of the mitral valve implant . The single segment may extend outwardly from mitral valve implant in at least one direction such that an outer perimeter and or cross section of the mitral valve implant is larger in at least one direction than the cross section of the mitral valve . Alternatively the safety stop may include a plurality of segments as shown in . The plurality of segments may be spaced evenly and or unevenly about the radial direction of the mitral valve implant . While each segment may extend less than 360 degrees along the radius of the mitral valve implant the sum of the segments may be equal less than or greater than 360 degrees. Again the plurality of segments may extend outwardly from mitral valve implant in at least one direction such that an outer perimeter and or cross section of the mitral valve implant is larger in at least one direction than the cross section of the mitral valve .

According to one embodiment the segments may have a generally tear drop like shape. However the segments may include other shapes such as but not limited to circles ovals rectangles triangles and the like. The segments may form a generally wire like frame as shown in . The wire like frame may facilitate the flow of fluid past the safety stop .

The segments may also have a generally solid geometry or shape as shown in . The solid segments may optionally include one or more openings apertures or passageways configured to allow fluid to pass through the solid segment . As used herein the phrases generally solid geometry substantially solid geometry or the like are intended to mean a geometry having an outer surface that defines a substantially fixed or constant volume. That is a volume of the segments does not substantially change before and after implantation of the mitral valve implant . A generally solid geometry may include without limitation a solid semi solid or porous e.g. micro or nano scale pores material.

At least a portion of the safety stop may be collapsible and or reducible in volume to facilitate percutaneous and or transluminal delivery of the mitral valve implant . In such a manner the safety stop of the mitral valve implant may be a collapsible member which can be reduced in volume and or reduced in maximum diameter during delivery to the heart and or during placement and or attachment of the anchor to native coronary tissue. After delivery to the heart the safety stop may be expanded inflated and or otherwise increased in volume or size. Accordingly the mitral valve implant may be delivered to an implantation site via a smaller diameter catheter and or via smaller vessels than would otherwise be required.

The at least partially deformable safety stop may be collapsed to a reduced size which may for example allow the mitral valve implant to be loaded into a catheter delivery system. Such a catheter delivery system may be suitable for transluminal delivery of a mitral valve implant including the safety stop to the heart. In addition to being collapsed the safety stop may be deformed to facilitate loading into a catheter delivery system. For example the safety stop may be collapsed and may be rolled and or folded to a generally cylindrical shape allowing the safety stop to be loaded in a catheter having a circular lumen.

A collapsed and or rolled or folded safety stop may be inflated restoring the safety stop to expanded configuration. For example a collapsed and or rolled or folded safety stop may be inflated and restored to an expanded configuration once the mitral valve implant has been delivered to the heart and deployed from a catheter delivery system. Inflating the safety stop may be carried out by introducing a fluid such as saline into the at least one cavity of the safety stop . In addition to a liquid such as saline the safety stop may be inflated with a setting or curable fluid. The setting or curable fluid may set and or be cured to a solid and or semi solid state within the cavity of the safety stop . An example of such a material may be a thermoset polymer resin a gel material such as silicone gel etc.

At least a portion of the safety stop may also be constructed from a shape memory material. For example at least a portion of the safety stop may include a shape memory alloy such as but not limited to copper zinc aluminum copper aluminum nickel and nickel titanium NiTi alloys. The shape memory alloy may include either one way or two way shape memory and may be introduced in to the delivery catheter lumen having a shape which does not exceed the interior dimensions of the delivery catheter lumen. For example the safety stop may have a generally elongated or generally helical shape. Upon delivery to proximate the mitral valve the shape memory safety stop may be heated to cause the safety stop to deform into the desired shape for installation.

According to another embodiment the safety stop may be formed from one or more separate segments which are each no larger than the interior radial dimensions of the delivery catheter lumen in at least one direction. The segments do not need to be expanded inflated but rather may be configured to be mounted coupled attached or otherwise secured to the mitral valve implant once delivered proximate the mitral valve. The size and shape of the segments may be varied by design and quantity such that the constructed safety stop accommodates the patient s anatomy etiology of valve regurgitation as well as the physical limitations of the implant delivery system.

At least a portion of the safety stop may also be coated or encapsulated with various compliant materials such as but not limited to porous synthetic materials for example polyesters that promote cell growth to improve biocompatibility and improve attachment between the safety stop and the native coronary tissue. Other coating materials include non reactive synthetics for example silicone urethane composites and xenograft animal pericardium or collagen materials.

While the safety stop has been shown extending generally 90 degrees radially outwardly from the mitral valve implant one or more of the safety stops may extend generally radially outwardly at one or more angles greater than or less than 90 degrees from the longitudinal axis L of the mitral valve implant . Additionally the safety stops may be located at a fixed position along the mitral valve implant or may be movable along the longitudinal axis L of the mitral valve implant . Accordingly the safety stop may be positioned along the longitudinal axis L of the mitral valve implant to minimize possible movement of the mitral valve insert and or to position the safety stop to minimize potential interference with the surrounding tissue. For example the safety stop may include a ratchet like mechanism. The safety stops may also be located about a common radial plane of the mitral valve implant and or may be located about two or more radial planes of the mitral valve implant .

It should be noted that while the mitral valve implant has been described in combination with a spacer the mitral valve implant may optionally include only the shaft the anchor portion and one or more safety stops as generally shown in . Additionally at least a portion of the shaft may include a substantially rigid shaft which is configured to be substantially self supporting. Alternatively or in addition at least a portion of the shaft may include a wire like shaft. According to this aspect the first and second ends of the shaft may each include anchor portions .

The spacer of the mitral valve implant shown in may have any shape known to those skilled in the art. For example as shown in the spacer may have a generally tapered shape including a sidewall tapering outwardly from a narrow portion adjacent to one or more of the ends of the spacer to an enlarged portion . The taper of the sidewall may have a flared or belled shape providing an at least partially concave geometry. In various other embodiments the spacer may include a sidewall having a generally uniform taper providing a straight profile. In still other embodiments the sidewall of the spacer may exhibit a convex taper producing an at least somewhat bulging tapered profile.

The enlarged portion of the spacer may have an arcuate profile around the circumference of the proximal region of the enlarged portion . The bottom of the enlarged portion may be provided having a flat and or arcuate shape. Furthermore the bottom of the proximal region may include convex and or concave contours.

According to an embodiment the spacer may be slidably coupled to the shaft . The spacer may include an opening extending from the bottom of the enlarged portion through the spacer and to the narrow portion . In one such embodiment the opening may extend generally axially through the spacer . The opening may be sized to slidably receive at least a portion of the shaft therethrough. The shaft may include one or more stops . The stops may be sized and or shaped to control and or restrict translation of the spacer along the shaft beyond the respective stops . In this manner in the illustrated embodiment translation of the spacer along the shaft may be restricted to the expanse of the shaft between the stops .

One or more of the stops may be integrally formed with the shaft . Furthermore one or more of the stops may be provided as a separate member coupled to and or formed on the shaft . In an embodiment in which one or more of the stops are integrally formed with the shaft the spacer may be slidably coupled to the shaft by pressing the spacer over at least one of the stops which may at least partially elastically deform the opening to permit passage of at least one of the stops . Once the one or more of the stops have been pressed through the opening the opening may at least partially elastically recover thereby resisting passage of the one or more stops back through the opening . Various other arrangements may be employed for providing stops on the shaft and or for controlling and or limiting translation of the spacer along the shaft.

The anchor portion may include a helical member coupled to the shaft . As shown the helical member may be loosely wound such that adjacent turns of the helical member do not contact one another for example resembling a corkscrew type configuration. The anchor portion may be engaged with tissue by rotating the anchor portion about the axis of the helical member thereby advancing the anchor portion into tissue. Consistent with such an embodiment the anchor portion may resist pulling out from the tissue. The anchor portion may be provided as an extension of the shaft wound in a helical configuration. Consistent with related embodiments the anchor portion may be formed as a separate feature and may be coupled to the shaft e.g. using mechanical fasteners welding adhesive etc.

According to various alternative embodiments the anchor portion may include various configurations capable of being coupled to and or otherwise attached to native coronary tissue. For example the anchor portion may include one or more prongs adapted to pierce coronary tissue and to alone or in conjunction with other features resist removal of the anchor portion from tissue. For example the anchor portion may include a plurality of prongs which may engage native coronary tissue. According to various other embodiments the anchor portion may include features that may facilitate attachment by suturing. Exemplary features to facilitate suturing may include rings or openings suture penetrable tabs etc. Various other anchor portions that may allow attachment or coupling to native coronary tissue may also suitably be employed in connection with the present disclosure.

Turning to the mitral valve implant is shown implanted within a heart . The mitral valve implant may be disposed at least partially within the left ventricle of the heart . As shown the anchor portion may be engaged with native coronary tissue within and or adjacent to the left ventricle . The shaft coupled to the anchor portion may extend into the left ventricle . The shaft may further extend at least partially within the mitral valve i.e. the shaft may extend at least partially between the cusps or leaflets of the mitral valve and may also extend at least partially into the left atrium . The spacer of the mitral valve implant may be positioned at least partially within the left ventricle with the enlarged portion within the left ventricle and with the narrow portion positioned at least partially within and or pointed towards the left atrium .

Sliding translation of the spacer along the shaft may at least partially withdraw the spacer from the mitral valve to an open position as shown. When the spacer is at least partially withdrawn from the mitral valve a passage may be opened between the spacer and the mitral valve allowing blood to flow from the left atrium to the left ventricle . Translation of the spacer away from the mitral valve may be controlled and or limited by the stop . In the open position the stop may maintain the spacer in general proximity to the mitral valve while still permitting sufficient clearance between the mitral valve and the spacer to permit adequate blood flow from the left atrium to the left ventricle . Additionally the flow of blood from left atrium to the left ventricle may cause the mitral valve to flare and or expand outwardly away from the mitral valve implant permitting blood flow between the implant and the cusps of the mitral valve .

As the left ventricle contracts the pressure of blood in the left ventricle may increase such that the blood pressure in the left ventricle is greater than the blood pressure in the left atrium . Additionally as the pressure of the blood in the left ventricle initially increases above the pressure of the blood in the left atrium blood may begin to flow towards and or back into the left atrium . The pressure differential and or initial flow of blood from the left ventricle into the left atrium may act against the spacer and may translate the spacer toward the left atrium . For example pressurized blood within the left ventricle may act against the bottom of the spacer inducing sliding translation of the spacer along the shaft toward the left atrium .

In the closed position as shown in the spacer may be translated toward and or at least partially into the left atrium . At least a portion of the spacer may interact with engage and or be positioned adjacent to at least a portion of the mitral valve . For example at least a portion of at least one cusp of the mitral valve may contact at least a portion of the spacer . Engagement between the spacer and the mitral valve may restrict and or prevent the flow of blood from the left ventricle back into the left atrium .

In addition to the translation of the spacer the mitral valve may also at least partially close around the spacer thereby also restricting and or preventing the flow of blood from the left ventricle to the left atrium . For example as mentioned above at least a portion of one or both of the cusps of the mitral valve may contact at least a portion of the spacer . In some embodiments as the pressure of the blood in the left ventricle increases the pressure against the bottom of the spacer may increase. The increase in pressure against the bottom of the spacer may in turn increase the engagement between the spacer and the mitral valve .

Sliding translation of the spacer toward the left atrium may at least partially be controlled and or limited by the stop coupled to the shaft . Additionally translation of the spacer toward the left atrium may be at least partially limited and or controlled by engagement between the spacer and the mitral valve . One or both of these restrictions on the translation of the spacer may in some embodiments prevent the spacer from passing fully into the left atrium . Furthermore the diameter of the enlarged portion of the spacer may limit and or restrict the movement of the spacer into the left atrium .

The preceding embodiment may therefore provide a mitral valve implant that is slidably translatable relative to the mitral valve to reduce and or eliminate regurgitation. Additional embodiments of a mitral valve implant are described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 258 828 entitled Heart Valve Implant filed on Oct. 26 2005 which is fully incorporated herein by reference. For example the mitral valve implant may include a generally stationary spacer and may include more than one anchoring portions.

The implant herein has been disclosed above in the context of a mitral valve implant. An implant consistent with the present disclosure may also suitably be employed in other applications e.g. as an implant associated with one of the other valves of the heart etc. The present invention should not therefore be construed as being limited to use for reducing and or preventing regurgitation of the mitral valve.

According to one aspect the present disclosure features a heart valve implant comprising a shaft extending generally along a longitudinal axis of the heart valve implant and a spacer coupled to the shaft between a first and a second end region of the shaft. The spacer may be configured to interact with at least a portion of at least one cusp of a heart valve to at least partially restrict a flow of blood through the heart valve in a closed position. At least one anchor may be configured to be coupled to the first end region of the shaft and at least one safety stop may extend generally radially outwardly from the longitudinal axis of the heart valve implant beyond at least a portion of an outer perimeter of the spacer. The safety stop may be configured to at least partially restrict a movement of the heart valve implant with respect to the heart valve in at least one direction.

According to another aspect the present disclosure features a method of restricting movement of a heart valve implant with respect to a heart valve. The method may comprise providing a heart valve implant comprising a shaft a spacer coupled to the shaft between a first and a second end region of the shaft at least one anchor configured to be coupled to the first end region of the shaft and at least one safety stop extending generally radially outwardly from the heart valve implant beyond at least a portion of an outer perimeter of the spacer. The heart valve implant may be at least partially collapsed and may be percutaneously inserted into a heart where it may be secured. At least a portion of the collapsed heart valve implant may be expanded and the safety stop may be configured to at least partially restrict a movement of the heart valve implant with respect to the heart valve in at least one direction.

According to yet another aspect the present disclosure features a method of restricting the movement of a heart valve implant. The method may comprise engaging an anchor into coronary tissue providing a shaft coupled to the anchor and a spacer coupled to the shaft. The spacer may be configured to interact with at least a portion of at least one cusp of a heart valve to at least partially restrict a flow of blood through the heart valve in a closed position. At least one safety stop may be provided that extends generally radially outwardly from the heart valve implant beyond at least a portion of an outer perimeter of the spacer. The safety stop may be configured to at least partially restrict a movement of the heart valve implant with respect to the heart valve in at least one direction.

While the depicted embodiments including expandable and or recoverably deformable as well as solid safety stops have generally been shown configured as a safety stop consistent with a translating spacer an expandable and or recoverably or solid safety stop may be configured for use as part of a valve implant including a stationary spacer. Similarly while the valve implant embodiments including an expandable spacer and or safety stops have been discussed in connection with transluminal and or percutaneous delivery systems and or procedures such embodiments may also suitably be employed in connection with surgical delivery systems and or methods. Additionally other features and aspects of the various embodiments may also suitably be combined and or modified consistent with the present disclosure. The present disclosure herein should not therefore be limited to any particular disclosed embodiment and should be given full scope of the appended claims.

