---

title: Methods and systems for monitoring structures and systems
abstract: Methods and systems for passenger monitoring and system control is provided. The system includes at least one sensor system configured to monitor an environment immediately surrounding the respective passenger and biometrics of the respective passenger and generate sensor data indicative of a state of the passenger. The system also includes a processing system configured to receive the sensor data. The processing system includes an ontology and reasoning module configured to model at least one of the plurality of passengers, reason about the received sensor data associated with the at least one of the plurality of passengers. The processing system also includes a contextual analyzer configured to transmit the received sensor data to said ontology and reasoning module and to store the information into a contextual information database.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07864039&OS=07864039&RS=07864039
owner: The Boeing Company
number: 07864039
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070330
---
This application is a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 620 871 filed Jan. 8 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 705 725 entitled Methods and Systems for Monitoring Structures and Systems which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to safety and security monitoring and more particularly to methods and systems for monitoring passengers and passenger environs using networked smart wireless sensor devices.

At least some known applications for wireless communication networks include industrial control and monitoring intelligent agriculture asset and inventory tracking and security. Typical wireless sensing systems comprise wireless sensors that passively gather large amounts of data from an environment which is typically transmitted to a host node for evaluation by an individual specifically trained to manually evaluate the information as time permits. This typical sensor system sometimes includes conversion of the signal from analog to digital and or signal conditioning. The raw time series data is typically transmitted in its entirety to a host node where it is sometimes stored indefinitely and analyzed very infrequently.

A conventional system comprises a plurality of sensors coupled to an interface which sends the information via a wired large bandwidth transmission to a computer at a remote location. Installation of the wires themselves are cost prohibitive due to the distances over which the wires must pass weight prohibitive due to the amount of the wiring or infeasible in many other situations due to the environment where the sensor itself and respective wiring are located. Low power wireless technology has proved to be an enabler for wireless sensing in areas that were previously unattainable due to the difficult to reach or difficult to wire nature of the installation or retrofit process. However transmitting the raw data via a large bandwidth wireless system may consume significant amounts of power and create unnecessary network traffic.

Preprocessing is sometimes used to reduce the amount of network traffic using compression technology or by intelligently sending only the most pertinent data. However reducing the data available for analysis also reduces the effectiveness of the analysis.

What are needed are methods and systems for monitoring passengers and or an environment proximate the passengers such that decisions and subsequent control measures regarding passenger and vehicle safety security and comfort can be made in real time and stored for future analysis for design and procedure changes that will facilitate improving the safety security and comfort of passengers in the future.

In one embodiment a passenger monitoring and control system includes at least one sensor system positioned proximate a respective one of a plurality of passengers in a vehicle wherein the sensor system is configured to monitor at least one of an environment immediately surrounding the respective passenger and biometrics of the respective passenger and generate sensor data indicative of a state of the passenger. The system also includes a processing system communicatively coupled to at least one of the sensor systems wherein the processing system is configured to receive the sensor data. The processing system includes an ontology and reasoning module configured to model at least one of the plurality of passengers reason about the received sensor data associated with the at least one of the plurality of passengers and reason about the relationships between the received sensor data to fuse the data into contextual information for the overall at least one of the plurality of passengers. The processing system also includes a contextual analyzer configured to transmit the received sensor data to the ontology and reasoning module and to store the information into a contextual information database.

In another embodiment a method of passenger monitoring includes positioning a sensor system proximate a respective at least one passenger in a vehicle the sensor system each including one or more sensors configured to monitor at least one of an environment immediately surrounding the respective passenger and biometrics of the respective passenger and generate sensor data indicative of a state of the passenger wirelessly transmitting the data to at least one of another one of the plurality of sensor systems and a processing system and analyzing the data to determine a contextual relationship between each of the plurality of sensor systems and the received data such that a present state of at least one of the passengers is determined.

In yet another embodiment a sensor networking system for passenger monitoring includes a plurality of sensor systems positioned about a vehicle wherein the sensor systems include a flexible substrate an energy harvesting system a rechargeable battery and a microprocessor that controls wireless communication between at least one of the sensor systems and a processing system remote from the plurality of sensor systems. The plurality of sensor systems further include sensors of a plurality of different modalities and a processing system communicatively coupled to at least one of the plurality of sensor systems. The processing system is configured to receive at least one of sensor data and fused sensor data and includes a situation awareness analyzer configured to determine an overall present state of the vehicle by observing the passengers activities associated with the passengers and aircraft systems using the plurality of sensor systems and correlating individual data elements and behavioral models to deduce overall passenger and system state.

In the exemplary embodiment sensor systems generally include a sensor a sensor access module and a sensor access agent and data processor . Sensor systems and also include an onboard memory for storing raw or processed data swappable program instruction code and look up tables LUT as needed to perform the various functions of sensor systems . Sensor systems include relatively thin lightweight energy harvesting materials connected to wafer thin polymer based or lithium ion rechargeable batteries to power embedded microprocessors. In addition these individual microprocessors and integrated micro sensors are attached to a thin planar antenna .

Sensor systems include small lightweight sensors with embedded local micro processing for collecting deciphering and recording data along with wireless communication capability. Sensor systems provide specific environmental and performance data for the components structure and systems that encompass an entire vehicle wide component set. Such data when integrated permits a detailed understanding of the relationship between the performance and environment of each component and how that relationship impacts the overall health of the set of components that make up the entire airplane. Sensor systems include a flexible substrate that is backed by a self adhesive layer for attachment to a component or structure of interest.

Sensor systems which combine energy harvesting and storage and micro processing record information such as but not limited to impact thermal conditions corrosion moisture electrical parameters load dynamic cycles and combinations including any of the above directly to the data processors as generated by the integrated micro sensors . Data processors include on chip memory for storing the sensor data and control features that control wireless communication between sensor systems and or onboard processing system . In the exemplary embodiment sensor systems are mounted on appliqu for ease of application and removal for the structural applications and are integrated into the nameplate for the individual systems based components.

Sensor access module provides wrapper functions for underlining sensor . The wrapper function provides a consistent interface for example but is not limited to an Application Programming Interface API to the upper layers of sensor access agent and data processor to control and retrieve data from sensor . The sensor access agent and data processor is the service entity supporting retrieval of sensor data via a set of pre defined common interfaces that onboard processing system can invoke. The data processor performs the first tier data fusion of raw sensor data into a preliminary form of contextual information. The degree of data fusion performed by the data processor depends on the type of sensor and the complexity of the sensor system. For example data processors in sensor system support the fusion of data retrieved from a first sensor subsystem and a second sensor subsystem into a coherent form and representing the information in a form that is relevant to sensor system context at the time the data is sensed. This information along with the raw sensor data is stored within local storage device . The stored information can be retrieved by onboard processing system at a later time for decision support system application or as a log history to monitor the behavior of sensor system .

Onboard processing system may receive sensor data for various structural and system components and combine different types of sensor data regardless of the source and regardless of the component or event being monitored to generate a more accurate assessment of the structural and system health of the specified component.

Onboard processing system is configured to process the sensor data along with any historical data and pre defined contextual information to determine or generate a contextual assessment of the condition and or status of the structure and system. Onboard processing system receives sensor data from one or more structural or system components and combines this data potentially from different sensor types to make a more complete condition estimate for the specified component and or the system as a whole. Onboard processing system may process historical data for trending purposes.

Onboard processing system may also receive any amount of manual inspection data or manual inspection data may be processed after download of the onboard processing system data to a central server. As used herein manual inspection data is data that has been collected with human labor as opposed to data that has been collected via an automated system. Although one preferred embodiment of Structure and Systems Health Monitoring System SSHMS eliminates the need for manual inspection data Structure and Systems Health Monitoring System SSHMS is capable of processing such data if it is available. Structure and Systems Health Monitoring System SSHMS is capable of merging manual inspection data with automated sensor data.

Onboard processing system is configured to perform any number of suitable data fusion techniques during the processing of the sensor data and optional manual inspection data. Onboard processing system processes its input data in an intelligent manner to generate a more complete and generally more reliable and accurate assessment of the structural health of the monitored component. Onboard processing system utilizes techniques including but not limited to expert systems neural networks and artificial intelligence technologies. Onboard processing system is also configured to perform data trending to filter noise from the sensor data and to otherwise enhance the accuracy of the health assessment. For example onboard processing system performs time domain and spatial filtering of the sensor data. Data trending functionality includes but is not limited to smoothing for example providing an accurate estimate of the past history of the sensor data assessment filtering for example computing an accurate noise rejecting estimate of the current structural and systems health state taking into account past history data and or prediction for example projecting the sensor data evolution into the future.

The data is recorded on the microprocessor and then intermittently relayed to an onboard processing system by an embedded rule based agent. The migration of the data from data processors to the individual onboard processing systems populated across the entire critical component family of the airplane both structural and systems including propulsion provides the smart characteristics of memory data manipulation and wireless communication to SSHMS . Onboard processing system includes a small externally or internally mounted transmit receive antenna depending on the location of the sensor systems . In the exemplary embodiment antenna utilizes UHF or SHF band frequencies. Antenna sends out a signal to the various sensor systems currently of interest. The identified sensor system energizes its wireless communication circuit and transmits the information of interest via energy emitted by the attached thin planar antenna using power from the integrated thin integrated rechargeable battery . Sensor systems are intermittently interrogated to download the sensor data to the on board repository.

Onboard processing system monitors records and appropriately generates notification alerts with accurate information on a real time basis. In the exemplary embodiment onboard processing system includes seven major components and is designed to function remotely from sensor system . In the exemplary embodiment onboard processing system executes on an independent computing system. In an alternative embodiment onboard processing system is collocated with another on board computing system. Sensor controller permits a data acquisition module to retrieve real time and historical sensor data and contextual information from sensor system . The real time sensor data interrogation involves the establishment of either a synchronous TCP socket connection from sensor controller to the sensor access agent or an asynchronous TCP socket connection from the sensor access agent to sensor controller . In addition sensor controller can also retrieve historical sensor data and sensor contextual information from the sensor s local store .

Selection of the specific sensor system to be interrogated or retrieval of historical data and the interrogation periodicity are controlled by a situation awareness analyzer . Once the data is received data acquisition module publishes or transmits the received data information to a contextual analyzer and situation awareness analyzer . Contextual analyzer uses the data as an input object for an ontology and reasoning module to fuse the data into contextual information for the overall airplane system and subsequently store the information into the contextual information database . Ontology and reasoning module includes an ontology engine which comprises a data model representing a domain such as the entire aircraft or a smaller defined portion of the aircraft and is used to reason about the objects in that domain and their inter relationships. The objects may be defined as for example but not limited to components systems or structures that make up the aircraft or the aircraft environment. A reasoning module which is the reasoning rule engine is used to reason the relationships.

An array sensing algorithm module includes logic that governs the order in which specific sensor systems are interrogated and the periodicity of their respective interrogations. This logic is fed into the situation awareness analyzer in order to direct sensor controller . In addition to the logic from array sensing algorithm module situation awareness analyzer also uses discovery module to determine which sensor systems to interrogate. In the exemplary embodiment discovery module includes three stages a node discovery which determines the presence of a node for example sensor system a service discovery which discovers the service provided by the given node and a contextual information discovery which discovers information relevant to the current context.

Situation awareness analyzer provides a single picture of the present state of the airplane system so that it can monitor record and appropriately generate notification alerts with the proper information in real time. In order to accomplish this and compile an overall view of the current state situation awareness analyzer needs to be aware of the current and past contextual information generated by the contextual analyzer discovery information from the discovery module logic from the array sensing algorithm module data reported by the data acquisition module and retrieve required sensor data to further augment the overall view.

This architecture creates a record of the environment and or the biometrics of one or more passengers on the airplane during flight. These records may be used to construct correlations between the interaction between the flight environment and passenger response to the environment and a real time or subsequent review of system performance. From this integrated data set algorithms are dynamically adjusted and or new algorithms constructed that provide input to design improvements and passenger attention and security procedures.

Passenger monitoring using Structure and Systems Health Monitoring System SSHMS includes a large number of distributed sensor systems communicatively coupled into a network or a plurality of interconnected networks. Such a sensor network improves the situational awareness of the passenger and vehicle interior state that includes monitored passenger condition and environment proximate each passenger or group of passengers. However the large number of sensors within the vehicle requires data from these disparate and heterogeneous sensors to be processed and combined intelligently to determine a clear and unambiguous view of the passengers state that is temporally relevant for security and comfort decision support systems. Data from the individual sensor systems is intelligently analyzed to extract information and the information from multiple sensor systems utilizing sensors of different modalities is intelligently combined to create a fused situational awareness view of the overall passenger state. Intelligent information is extracted from sensor data and fused from multiple modalities to provide an overall view of the vehicle environment and system states. Events and activities associated with the passengers and within systems and sub systems are observed and individual data elements and behavioral models are correlated to deduce overall system state and behavior. The correlation of individual data elements and behavioral models within temporal space also enables estimating the states of the system and sub systems for pro active decision support systems. The estimated state can include any future anticipated state which may be caused by events and activities that have happened in the related environment. The sensor networks are arranged for distributed monitoring with low power devices and ad hoc wireless networking capability to inter communicate with onboard processing system . Sensor systems include adaptive storage functions by appropriately fusing the sensed data to ensure that it can effectively be communicated to onboard processing system . Data reduction at the sensor source minimizes the communication requirements thereby easing the power requirements of the overall system since computation is more power efficient when compared to communication. Structure and Systems Health Monitoring System SSHMS optimizes a balance between local computation versus communication while ensuring the required information quality is retained to enable onboard processing system to function effectively regardless of data fusion at the sensor sources or at intermediary aggregation points. Array sensing algorithms and sensors that incorporate directional sensing capabilities provide a more complete view of the system and sub systems in particular areas. Local reasoning is incorporated into the sensor source to enable time and space based analysis to measure the sensor viewpoint for the event. The sensor sources include power aware computation to minimize the volume of data stored onboard the sensor device and communicated to onboard processing system .

Structure and Systems Health Monitoring System SSHMS includes a plurality of sensor systems applied to various components proximate each passenger or group of passengers. A reader including a transmit receive antenna is positioned to transmit an interrogation signal to one or more of sensor systems . Each sensor system responds to the interrogation signal with the information requested by reader . Reader may request raw data or data that has been primarily processed by sensor system or may request stored data stored in storage device . In the exemplary embodiment reader comprises an onboard processing system described above. In an alternative embodiment reader comprises a relay device configured to receive data from one or more sensor systems and relay the data to an onboard processing system positioned remotely on aircraft . In the exemplary embodiment only one reader is shown however additional readers and or onboard processing systems may be included in Structure and Systems Health Monitoring System SSHMS . In the exemplary embodiment sensor systems are selected and placed to monitor structural characteristics of the operation of aircraft . Such sensor systems may include pressure sensors noise sensors temperature sensor and other sensors configured to sense conditions associated with the passengers and the interior cabin environment.

Systems components sensor systems include integrated energy harvesting thin lightweight rechargeable battery thin lightweight antennas integrated microprocessor and various miniaturized integrated sensors. Information stored on board the microprocessors is periodically transmitted wirelessly to communication devices that store the data and further transmits the data to a database for analysis using correlation algorithms. Information is provided to the design community for detailed data on the passengers and cabin environment. Information from the integrated sensors is used to build and fuel algorithms to provide real time alerts to cabin attendants and security personnel. Improved overall passenger comfort safety and security result from awareness of the contextual relationships of the events and activities occurring with the passengers and comfort system components which also provides more accurate predictive capability to enable accurate environmental control and passenger comfort attention.

Pressure sensor type sensor system may also be positioned in seat cushion and configured to sense passenger weight for presence indication passenger movement such as shifting his body position that may indicate the passenger is uncomfortable or fidgeting in his seat that may indicate anxiousness or discomfort. Each sensor signal may be used in real time or stored in memory to immediately address the passenger discomfort or to design configuration changes to the vehicle to reduce passenger discomfort in the future.

Similarly a temperature type sensor system may be positioned within backrest to aim a field of view of an infrared sensor towards at least a portion of the passenger s body for example but not limited to the head and upper torso . In an alternative embodiment temperature type sensor system may include a resistance temperature detector RTD or an electronic based sensor including in one embodiment a carbon nano structure based sensor. Temperature type sensor system may be positioned within seat cushion or backrest of passenger seat and be configured to monitor a body temperature of the passenger. Such body temperature may be used to control heating or air conditioning in the vicinity of the passenger including a forced air system and or heating elements within seat cushion and or back rest of passenger seat .

In an alternative embodiment sensor system includes a sensor that exhibits a property that varies in response to a presence of a predetermined substance. For example the sensor may be configured to detect a substance that is associated with a human metabolic process and or secretion. The sensor may also be configured to detect a substance of human origin a substance indicative of the presence of a microbe associated with human illness a substance prohibited to be carried on the vehicle by a passenger a radioactive substance and or a substance of a product of combustion or pyrolysis.

Specifically the sensor may be configured to detect a pheromone a hormone a component of perspiration or other substance that can be made airborne and is a product of a human metabolic process and or secretion. Such sensors may be used to correlate a health of the passenger and a database of communicable diseases and conditions. Knowledge of a potentially ill passenger on for example an international airline flight between two countries may be able to be used to divert the aircraft and or permit quarantining the passengers.

Certain microbes such as viruses and bacteria are known to be communicable through respiration by others of droplets of mucus and saliva propelled into the air through sneezing and coughing of an infected person. Such droplets may be collected by sensors configured to receive the droplets and further analyze the contents of the droplets for specific components indicative of the presence of a predetermined harmful microbe. For example the sensor may be configured to determine the presence of anthrax avian flu Ebola and other microbes. Additionally some microbes are relatively harmless to humans but are deadly to food animals such as cattle. In an alternative embodiment sensors are configured to determine the presence of microbes harmful to livestock that may be carried by humans.

The sensor may be configured to determine the presence of a substance that is prohibited from being carried on the vehicle by a passenger such as explosive substances flammable substances and components of binary compounds that be mixed to form explosive or flammable substances.

In one embodiment sensor system includes a plurality of sensors in a single housing. In another embodiment a plurality of sensors are positioned proximate or in contact the passenger. Sensor system may be configured to monitor a group of passengers for example one sensor system for each nine passengers. The number of passengers monitored by each sensor system is dependent on for example but not limited to economy the vehicle seating configuration the seating arrangement of the passengers or other considerations.

Sensor system may include sensors configured to monitor a humidity a temperature a sound level a light level and or a movement of air surrounding a passenger associated with sensor system . Signals from a plurality of sensor systems may be used to ascertain an overall condition of the cabin the vehicle and localized areas of environmental measurements that differ from the overall condition.

Sensor system may include sensors configured to monitor passenger biometrics for example but not limited to a body temperature an amount of movement a respiration a heart rate and a contact pressure bearing of the surface of the respective passenger. At least some passengers may not express a level of discomfort experienced and such passenger discomfort may affect the passenger future selection of a travel carrier. Measuring passenger biometrics may permit an attendant the opportunity to offer comfort which the passenger may not have requested but may still accept when offered. Reasoning a level of passenger comfort using biometrics and environment data permits intervening on behalf of the passenger to improve the travel experience. For example monitoring a passenger movement using pressure sensors or sonic or other movement sensor may indicate the passenger is uncomfortable. A notification may be transmitted to an attendant who may then determine a source of the passenger discomfort and offer a solution.

Sensor systems are positioned on for example but not limited to passenger compartment equipment passenger carry on stowage bins in the vicinity of passenger seating and system components and cargo in lower cargo compartment . In at least some embodiments sensor systems include sensors that are selected with properties capable of detecting and or measuring passenger activity and chemical biological and radioactive agents that may be carried or otherwise transported into passenger compartment .

The above described methods and systems for monitoring aircraft structures and system components are cost effective and highly reliable. The methods described herein utilize small lightweight sensors with embedded local micro processing for collecting deciphering and recording data along with wireless communication capability. Such wireless enabled smart sensors identifiers permit acquiring specific environmental and performance data for the components that encompass the entire aircraft wide component set. This data is then integrated to determine a detailed understanding of how the performance and environment of each of the components impacts the overall health of the set of components that make up the entire airplane.

While the disclosure has been described in terms of various specific embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the claims.

