---

title: Techniques for sharing content information with members of a virtual user group in a network environment without compromising user privacy
abstract: Techniques for sharing content information between members of a virtual user group without compromising the privacy of the members. A user can identify content information to be shared with other members of a virtual user group using a user computer system. The content information is then communicated to the other members of the virtual user group and can be accessed by members of the virtual user group in such a manner that the privacy of the user and of the other members of the virtual user group is not compromised. The present invention preserves user privacy by controlling and minimizing the amount of user-related information available/accessible to server systems hosting the virtual user groups.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07822812&OS=07822812&RS=07822812
owner: Stratify, Inc.
number: 07822812
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070103
---
This application is a continuation application of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 09 861 094 filed on May 17 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 177 904 issued Feb. 13 2007 the entire disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference for all purposes which claims priority from the following applications the entire disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference for all purposes 

 1 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 206 190 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING INFORMATION TO USERS IN A NETWORK ENVIRONMENT WITHOUT COMPROMISING USER PRIVACY filed May 22 2000 and

 2 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 205 938 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CREATING VIRTUAL COMMUNITIES WHILE PRESERVING THE PRIVACY OF USERS IN THE VIRTUAL COMMUNITY filed May 18 2000.

The present application also incorporates herein by reference for all purposes the entire disclosures of the following applications 

 1 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 861 463 entitled TECHNIQUES FOR IDENTIFYING AND ACCESSING INFORMATION OF INTEREST TO A USER IN A NETWORK ENVIRONMENT WITHOUT COMPROMISING THE USER S PRIVACY filed May 17 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 581 072 issued Jun. 17 2003 

 2 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 861 082 entitled TECHNIQUES FOR IDENTIFYING VIRTUAL USER GROUPS IN A NETWORK ENVIRONMENT WITHOUT COMPROMISING USER PRIVACY filed May 17 2001 and now abandoned and

 3 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 861 471 entitled TECHNIQUES FOR JOINING VIRTUAL USER GROUPS IN A NETWORK ENVIRONMENT AND RECEIVING INFORMATION RELATED TO THE VIRTUAL USER GROUPS WITHOUT COMPROMISING USER PRIVACY filed May 17 2001 now abandoned.

The present invention relates to the use of communication networks such as the Internet to connect users of common interests. In particular the present invention provides techniques for sharing content information between members of a virtual user group without compromising the privacy of the members.

With the widespread use of computers an expanding telecommunication network and the rising popularity of communication networks such as the Internet an increasing amount of information is stored by computer systems coupled to the communication networks. In the World Wide Web Web environment information resources are typically stored in the form of hypertext documents called web pages which can be accessed and read by users of the Web. A web page may incorporate any combination of text graphics audio and video content software programs and other data. Web pages may also contain hypertext links to other web pages. Web pages are typically stored on web servers or content servers coupled to the Internet. Each web page is uniquely identified by an address called a Uniform Resource Locator URL that enables users to access the web page.

Computer systems connected to communication networks such as the Internet can generally be classified as clients or servers depending on the role the computer systems play with respect to requesting information or storing providing information. Computers systems which are used by users to access information are typically called client computers. Users typically access web pages using a program called a web browser which generally executes on a client computer coupled to the Internet. The web browser is a type of client application that enables users to select retrieve and perceive information contained in web pages. Examples of browsers include the Internet Explorer browser program provided by Microsoft Corporation the Netscape Navigator browser provided by Netscape Corporation and others. Users generally access web pages by providing URL information to the browser either directly or indirectly and the browser responds by retrieving the web page corresponding to the user provided URL from the Internet. The retrieved web page is then displayed to the requesting user on the client computer.

The web pages are generally stored by server computer systems coupled to the communication network. Server systems are responsible for receiving information requests from client systems performing processing required to satisfy the requests and for forwarding the results information corresponding to the information requests back to the requesting client systems. The processing required to satisfy the client request may be performed by a single server system or may alternatively be delegated to other servers connected to the communication network such as the Internet. It should be apparent that a particular computer system may function both as a server and a client.

Communication networks such as the Internet are also being widely used as tools to connect users having similar interests hobbies preferences and the like. This is evidenced by the increasing number of portals virtual communities chat rooms etc. related to a variety of different topics and subjects. These virtual user communities bring together users of similar interests for purposes of trading or discussion or simply exchange of information. For example if a particular user is interested in Thai Cooking the user can become a member of a virtual user group dedicated to Thai cooking and exchange information with other user members interested in Thai cooking.

In order to participate in such virtual user groups a user has to identify a particular virtual user group of interest to the user and then become a member or join of the virtual user group to be able to exchange information with other members of the virtual user groups. Due to the vast proliferation of virtual user groups in order to identify a virtual user group of interest to the user most users generally use search engines to help identify one or more virtual user groups from a large collection of virtual user groups hosted by computer systems coupled to the communication network. Examples of search engines in the Internet environment include search engines provided by Yahoo Google Lycos Excite Altavista and the like.

Search engines typically use programs such as crawlers or spiders to find information about virtual user groups supported or hosted by computer systems coupled to the communication network. The information collected by a crawler may include the name of the virtual user group the topic or subject to which the virtual user group is dedicated information about the server system hosting the virtual user group and other like information. The information collected by a crawler is usually stored by the server providing the search engine in the form of an index which facilitates identification of virtual user groups based on criteria related to the virtual user groups. The structure of an index may vary based on the search engine.

In order to identify virtual user groups of interest a user generally configures a query using a client computer. The query may contain query terms which describe for example a topic or concept for which the user is interested in finding virtual user groups. For example if the user is interested in finding virtual user groups related Thai cooking the query terms may include the words Thai and cooking. 

The user configured query is then communicated from the user s client computer to a remote server system executing a search engine. Upon receiving the search query the search engine executing on the remote server identifies virtual user groups which match or satisfy the user query based upon information stored in the index used by the search engine. Information identifying the relevant virtual user groups i.e. virtual user groups identified to satisfy the user query is then communicated from the remote search engine server to the user s client computer. The user may then use the information received from the search engine to join one or more virtual user groups.

Some search engines also perform searches implicitly without receiving user input based on the contents of documents e.g. web pages viewed by the user. These search engines use the contents of the document being browsed viewed by the user as a search query which is communicated from the user computer to the search engine server. Based on the contents of the document being viewed by the user and based upon index information being used by the search engine the search engine identifies virtual user groups of interest to the user. Information related to the virtual user groups identified by the search engine is then communicated to the user system. The information may then be presented to the user via a pop up screen which appears on an output device coupled to the user system. Examples of companies which provide such implicit search engines include Nano http www.nano.com Kenjin http www.autonomy.com Third Voice http www.thirdvoice.com Flyswat http www.flyswat.com Gurunet http www.gurunet.com Annotate http www.annotate.net and Alexa http www.alexa.com .

After having identified a virtual user group of interest to the user e.g. a virtual user group related to Thai cooking the user may then join or become a member of the virtual user group in order to receive and exchange information from with other members of the virtual user group. In order to become a member of a virtual user group the user generally has to access a remote server hosting the virtual user group and provide user related information to the server system hosting the virtual user group to join to the virtual user group. The user related information which the user may be required to provide to the hosting server may include the user s name address phone number email address and the like. This information is stored by the remote server system hosting the virtual user group. The user is then made a member of the virtual user group. The user may then receive and exchange information with other members of the virtual user group.

There are several ways in which conventional techniques described above of identifying and joining virtual user groups can compromise the user s privacy. Conventional search engine servers frequently track and or mine information provided by the user to the search engine or in the case of implicit search engines received by the search engine from the user system. For example several conventional search engines mine information contained in user search queries which may contain information of a sensitive and private nature provided to the search engines. The information is generally mined without the user s approval or authorization. In a Web environment conventional search engines also track web sites web pages etc. accessed by the user the content of the web pages transactions performed by the user at the web sites information related to virtual user groups which the user joins information about virtual user groups related information accessed by the user and other like information without the user s permission.

Likewise user related information provided by the user to server systems hosting virtual user groups during the joining registration process may also be mined by the hosting server systems. The hosting server systems can track the identities of virtual groups which the user has joined the information accessed by the user and other like information related to the user s interactions with the virtual user group. The hosting servers can also track information which the user shares or exchanges with members of a virtual user group.

The information mined or tracked by conventional search engines or by server systems hosting virtual user groups can be used to ascertain information about the user s interests likes dislikes the user s shopping preferences information related to the user s use of the Internet and other information related to the user and the user s behavior. The information can be used to build a detailed profile of the user and the user s browsing behavior. Further since the user information is stored on computer systems remote from the user s computer system the user has very little control on the collection and dissemination of the information.

User information collected by the search engines and the servers hosting the virtual user groups which may be sensitive in nature and contain confidential information may then be distributed or even sold to entities such as advertising agencies government agencies insurance companies business entities and the like without the user s permission. This may result in the user being subjected to unsolicited Spam mail messages unwelcome advertisements credit card fraud mail fraud banking fraud and other unwelcome activities. As a result conventional techniques of identifying virtual user groups using search engines executing on remote servers joining virtual user groups and sharing or exchanging information with members of virtual user groups can severely compromise a user s privacy and consequently the user s security even lead to loss of identity of the user.

In light of the above there is a need for techniques which allow a user to identify virtual user groups of interest to the user allow the user to become a member of one or more virtual user groups of interest to the user and share or exchange information with members of virtual user groups joined by the user without compromising the user s privacy or security.

According to the present invention techniques are provided which allow a user to share content information with other members of a virtual user group to which the user belongs without compromising the user s privacy. The content information to be shared with other members of a virtual user group is identified on the user computer system and can be shared with other members of a virtual user group. The present invention preserves user privacy by controlling and minimizing the amount of user related information available accessible to remote server systems hosting the virtual user groups.

According to an embodiment of the present invention techniques are provided for communicating content information between user systems of members of a virtual user group. In this embodiment a server system is configured to host a plurality of virtual user groups the plurality of virtual user groups including a first virtual user group. A plurality of user systems are coupled to the server system the plurality of user systems including a first user system and a second user system each of the plurality of user systems storing information indicating that a user of the user system is a member of at least one virtual user group from the plurality of virtual user groups hosted by the server. The first user system is configured to store information indicating that a user of the first user system is a member of the first virtual user group to receive a signal identifying content information to be communicated to user systems whose users are members of the first virtual user group and to communicate the content information from the first user system to the server. The server is configured to communicate the content information received from the first user system to the plurality of user systems coupled to the server system. The second user system is configured to store information indicating that a user of the second user system is a member of the first virtual user group to receive the content information from the server to determine if the content information is related to the first virtual user group and if the content information is determined to be related to the first virtual user group to output the content information.

According to another embodiment of the present invention techniques are provided for communicating content information from a first user system to a second user system. In this embodiment a plurality of servers host a plurality of virtual user groups. The first user system is configured to store information indicating that a user of the first user system is a member of the plurality of virtual user groups to receive a signal identifying content information to determine a first virtual user group from the plurality of virtual user groups to which the content information is related to determine the plurality of servers hosting the plurality of virtual user groups the plurality of servers including a first server hosting the first virtual user group and to communicate the content information from the first user system to the plurality of servers. The second user system is configured to receive the content information from the first server to determine if the content information is related to the first virtual user group and to output the content information if the content information is determined to be related to the first virtual user group.

According to yet another embodiment of the present invention techniques are provided for communicating content information from a first user system to a second user system. In this embodiment a plurality of servers are configured to host a plurality of virtual user groups. The first user system is configured to store information indicating that a user of the first user system is a member of the plurality of virtual user groups to receive a signal identifying content information to determine a first virtual user group from the plurality of virtual user groups to which the content information is related to determine from the plurality of servers a first server hosting the first virtual user group and to communicate the content information from the first user system to the first server. The first server is configured to communicate the content information to a plurality of user systems each user system of the plurality of user systems storing information indicating that a user of the user system is a member at least one virtual user group hosted by the first server the plurality of user systems including the second user system. The second user system is configured to store information indicating that a user of the second user system is a member of the first virtual user group to receive the content information from the first server to determine if the content information is related to the first virtual user group and to output the content information if the content information is determined to be related to the first virtual user group.

Various additional objects features and advantages of the present invention can be more fully appreciated with reference to the detailed description and accompanying drawings that follow.

According to the present invention techniques are provided which allow a user to identify one or more virtual user groups of interest to the user in a network environment allow the user to become a member of or join one or more virtual user groups and allow the user to receive and exchange information with members of the virtual user groups without compromising the user s privacy. More particularly according to an embodiment of the present invention virtual user groups of interest to a user are identified at the computer system used by the user user system itself without having to provide information to search engines executing on remote servers where the user information may be tracked. Further the user can join or become a member of one or more virtual user groups without having to provide user related information to remote server systems hosting the virtual user groups which the user desires to join. The user related membership information is stored on the user computer rather than on the remote server hosting the virtual user group. Techniques according to the present invention also allow a user to receive virtual user group related information and share content information with members of a virtual user group which the user has joined without compromising the user s privacy.

The present invention thus preserves user privacy by controlling and minimizing the amount of user related information available and or accessible to remote server systems. The user related information is stored locally on the user s computer system. Since the user has complete control over the distribution of information from the user system the privacy of the user is preserved.

The present invention has been described below using a Web based embodiment of the present invention. It should however be apparent that the present invention is not restricted to the Web environment and may also be used in other network environments such as an intranet a WAN a wireless network and the like.

Communication network provides a mechanism allowing the various components of computer network to communicate and exchange information with each other. Communication network may itself be comprised of many interconnected computer systems and communication links. While in one embodiment communication network is the Internet in other embodiments communication network may be any suitable communication network including a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a wireless network a intranet a private network a public network a switched network and the like.

Communication links may be hardwire links optical links satellite or other wireless communications links wave propagation links or any other mechanisms for communication of information. Various communication protocols may be used to facilitate communication between the various systems shown in . These communication protocols may include TCP IP HTTP protocols extensible markup language XML wireless application protocol WAP vendor specific protocols customized protocols and others.

According to an embodiment of the present invention user system can be used by users to identify virtual user groups of interest to the user to become a member of one or more virtual user groups of interest to the user to receive information related to the virtual user groups which the user has joined and to exchange or share information with members of a virtual user group which the user has joined or become a member of. In a specific embodiment of the present invention the user may use a browser program executing on user system to facilitate the identification joining and information exchange activities. Users may also use user system to access other information resources such as web pages stored by servers coupled to communication network . User system generally functions as a client requesting information from the servers coupled to communication network . Further information related to functions performed by user system are described below.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a VUGHSS hosts or supports or provide facilities for one or more virtual user groups. For purposes of this application the use of the phrase virtual user group is intended to include chat rooms discussion groups bulletin boards online user groups newsgroups group mailing lists and other online communities available in a network environment. For each virtual user group hosted by VUGHSS VUGHSS facilitates exchange of information between members of the hosted virtual user group. Further information related to the functions performed by VUGHSS are described below.

SESSs are servers which provide search engines which may be used by users using conventional techniques to identify virtual user groups or other documents e.g. web pages of interest to users. SESSs typically have access to index information which is used by SESS to facilitate the search process. For example the index information may contain information identifying virtual user groups hosted by computer systems coupled to communication network information related to the server systems VUGHSSs hosting the virtual user groups information related to topics or subjects to which the virtual user groups are dedicated and other information related to the virtual user groups. The index information is generally stored in a manner which facilitates identification of virtual user groups based on criteria e.g. topic to which a virtual user group is dedicated the name of a virtual user group etc. related to the virtual user groups. SESS may be configured to communicate index information to index server or to user system . Further information related to functions performed by SESS are described below.

According to the teachings of the present invention index server is configured to collect and or generate index information identifying virtual user groups hosted by systems coupled to communication network and to communicate the collected and or generated index information to user system to facilitate identification of virtual user groups of interest to the user on user system . According to an embodiment of the present invention the index information communicated by index server to user system include indices information received by index server from one or more SESSs coupled to communication network . For example for the distributed system depicted in index server may receive index information from SESS and index information from SESS and the index information communicated by index server to user system may include index information and . According to another embodiment of the present invention index server may receive indices information from SESSs process the indices information and then communicate the indices information to user system .

In yet other embodiments of the present invention index server may itself be configured to generate an index for information related to virtual user groups hosted by computer systems coupled to communication network . For example index server may use spiders and crawlers to collect information related to virtual user groups accessible via communication network and build an index based on the collected information. Index server may then communicate the generated index information to user system .

User interface input devices may include a keyboard pointing devices such as a mouse trackball touchpad or graphics tablet a scanner a barcode scanner a touchscreen incorporated into the display audio input devices such as voice recognition systems microphones and other types of input devices. In general use of the term input device is intended to include all possible types of devices and ways to input information into computer system or to communication networks coupled to computer system .

User interface output devices may include a display subsystem a printer a fax machine or non visual displays such as audio output devices. The display subsystem may be a cathode ray tube CRT a flat panel device such as a liquid crystal display LCD or a projection device. The display subsystem may also provide non visual display such as via audio output devices. In general use of the term output device is intended to include all possible types of devices and ways to output information from computer system .

Storage subsystem may be configured to store the basic programming and data constructs that provide the functionality of the computer system and of the present invention. For example according to an embodiment of the present invention software modules implementing the functionality of the present invention may be stored in storage subsystem . These software modules may be executed by processor s of computer system . In a distributed environment the software modules may be stored on a plurality of computer systems and executed by processors of the plurality of computer systems. Storage subsystem may also provide a repository for storing various databases which may be used to store information according to the teachings of the present invention. Storage subsystem may comprise memory subsystem and file storage subsystem .

Memory subsystem may include a number of memories including a main random access memory RAM for storage of instructions and data during program execution and a read only memory ROM in which fixed instructions are stored. File storage subsystem provides persistent non volatile storage for program and data files and may include a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive along with associated removable media a Compact Digital Read Only Memory CD ROM drive an optical drive removable media cartridges and other like storage media. One or more of the drives may be located at remote locations on other connected computers at another site coupled to communication network . Information stored according to the teachings of the present invention may also be stored by file storage subsystem .

Bus subsystem provides a mechanism for letting the various components and subsystems of computer system communicate with each other as intended. The various subsystems and components of computer system need not be at the same physical location but may be distributed at various locations within distributed network . Although bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative embodiments of the bus subsystem may utilize multiple busses.

Computer system itself can be of varying types including a personal computer a portable computer a workstation a computer terminal a network computer a mainframe a kiosk a personal digital assistant PDA a communication device such as a cell phone or any other data processing system. Due to the ever changing nature of computers and networks the description of computer system depicted in is intended only as a specific example for purposes of illustrating the preferred embodiment of the computer system. Many other configurations of a computer system are possible having more or fewer components than the computer system depicted in . Computer system may function as a client or a server or combinations thereof.

Techniques for Identifying Virtual User Groups of Interest to a User without Compromising the User s Privacy

As depicted in index server configures index information to be communicated to user system step . The index information configured by index server comprises information related to the virtual user groups hosted by computer systems coupled to communication network . Index server may use various techniques to configure the index information.

According to an embodiment of the present invention index server receives indices information from one or more SESSs coupled to communication network and configures the index information based on indices information received from the SESSs . For example for the distributed system depicted in index server may receive index information from SESS and index information from SESS and configure the index information to be communicated to user system based on index information and . Index server may also process the indices information received from the SESSs before communicating the information to user system . As part of the processing index server may combine information contained in the various indices received from the various SESSs to form the index information to be communicated to user system

SESSs may be configured to communicate index information to index server on a periodic basis or in response to index information requests received from index server . The time period between transfers may be user configurable. Indices information may be communicated to index server at regular time intervals to ensure that index server has the latest snapshot of virtual user groups hosted by servers coupled to communication network . Various other techniques may also be used to ensure that index server has up to date information.

In alternative embodiments of the present invention index server can itself generate an index for information related to virtual user groups hosted by computer systems coupled to communication network . For example index server may use spiders crawlers etc. to collect information related to virtual user groups hosted by computer systems coupled to communication network and build an index based on the collected information.

Since the size of the index information can be quite large according to an embodiment of the present invention index server performs processing to reduce the size of the index information to be communicated to user system . As part of this processing index server may use various data filters to reduce the size of the index information to be communicated to user system . The criteria for the data filters may be user configurable. Index server may also use various data compression techniques to reduce the size of the index information communicated to user system . According to yet another embodiment index server might be configured to communicate index information to user system in an incremental manner such that only new or changed index information a delta from the previously communicated index information is communicated to user system .

According to an embodiment of the present invention index server may be configured to communicate only a portion referred to as partial index information of the index information received by or configured by index server to user system . Index server may determine the contents of the partial index information to be communicated to user system based on criteria provided to index server . According to an embodiment of the present invention the criteria is user configurable. The user configured criteria is generally abstract and generic enough that user privacy is not compromised. For example a particular user may only be interested in virtual user groups related to Sports and accordingly may indicate to index server that the user system used by the user should only receive index information related to Sports related virtual user groups. In this scenario index server may extract information about virtual user groups related to sports from the index information received by or configured by index server and communicate only the sports related index information to user system instep .

Index server then communicates the index information configured in step to user system step . The index information comprises information about virtual user groups hosted by computer systems coupled to communication network . The index information communicated to user system may comprise information identifying one or more virtual user groups information identifying VUGHSSs hosting the one or more virtual user groups information identifying topics or subjects to which the virtual user groups are dedicated and other information. The information is generally organized in a manner which facilitates identification of a virtual user group based on criteria related to the virtual user group. The criteria may include for example a name of the virtual user group a topic or subject e.g. Thai cooking of a virtual user group the number of members of a virtual user group the location of the VUGHSS hosting the virtual user group attributes of the members of the virtual user group and other attributes of the virtual user group.

According to an embodiment of the present invention index server is configured to communicate the index information to user system on a periodic basis. The time period between transfers might be user configurable. Index information may be communicated to user system at regular time intervals to ensure that user system has the latest snapshot of virtual user groups hosted by computer systems coupled to communication network . Various other techniques may also be used to ensure that user system has up to date information about virtual user groups supported by distributed network . In an alternative embodiment index server may communicate the index information to user system in response to information requests received from user system . For example user system may send a signal to index server requesting index server to download the index information to the requesting user system.

In alternative embodiments of the present invention SESSs may directly communicate indices information to user system step . SESSs may communicate the indices information to user system on a periodic basis. The time period may be user configurable. In alternative embodiments SESSs may communicate the index information to user system in response to requests received from user system .

Referring back to at step user system receives the index information communicated either from index server or from one or more SESSs step . The index information received by user system from index server or from SESSs might then be used to identify one or more virtual user groups of interest to the user on the user system step . Various different techniques may be used to identify virtual user groups of interest to or relevant to the user using the index information received in step . According to the teachings of the present invention for each of the identification techniques the entire processing for identifying virtual user groups of interest to the user is performed on user system itself substantially free from any interaction with SESSs VUGHSSs and index server . Unlike conventional search engines the user does not have to provide search queries or other information to remote search engine servers where the information may be mined and or tracked. Since all identification operations are performed locally on user system the user has complete control over the type of information which can be tracked during the identification process and also has complete control over the distribution of the information. The user s privacy is thus preserved as user related information cannot be tracked mined or accessed by any computer system remote from the user system without the user s authorization.

Since virtual user groups of interest to the user are identified based on index information which is locally stored on user system user system does not have to be connected to communication network during the identification process i.e. the index information received by user system can be searched and the relevant virtual user groups identified in an offline manner. This is substantially different from conventional search engines executing on remote servers which require that the user system have a network connection i.e. be online to the server executing the search engine in order for the search to be performed and relevant virtual user groups identified. Local access to the index information also increases the speed of the identification process as compared to conventional network based search techniques which are usually executed on one or more remote servers.

As indicated above various techniques may be used to identify virtual user groups of interest to or relevant to the user using the index information received in step . According to an embodiment of the present invention a localized search engine is provided to facilitate the identification of relevant virtual user groups. The localized search engine executes on user system and is configured to accept a search query request from the user and to search the index information to identify virtual user groups which satisfy the search query. According to an embodiment of the present invention the localized search engine may be coupled to a browser program executing on user system and receive the search query via the browser interface.

The user search query may contain query terms which describe for example a topic or subject for which the user is interested in finding virtual user groups. For example if the user is interested in finding virtual user groups dedicated to Thai cooking the query terms may include the words Thai and cooking. In response to the query the localized search engine is configured to search the index information and identify virtual user groups dedicated to Thai cooking. Various different comparison and search techniques may be used by the localized search engine to search the index information to identify virtual user groups relevant to the user query. Information related to virtual user groups identified by the localized search engine may be presented to the user via an output device coupled to user system e.g. via a browser interface.

Unlike conventional search engines executing on remote servers the localized search engine executes locally on user system and uses index information received from index server or from SESSs which is stored locally by user system . Accordingly virtual user groups of interest to the user can be identified without having to communicated user queries to remote search engine servers where the information contained in the queries may be mined or tracked by the servers. Since all operations are performed on user system the user has complete control on the type of information if any which is tracked stored by the localized search engine. The user also has complete control over the distribution of the information tracked by the localized search engine. The user s privacy is thus preserved as user related information cannot be tracked or mined or distributed from user system without the user s authorization. Computer systems other than the user s computer system do not have access to user information.

As described above the localized search engine provides a tool for identifying virtual user groups of interest to a user based on search queries provided by the user. According to another embodiment of the present invention virtual user groups of interest to the user may be automatically identified without any user interaction based upon index information received by user system from index server or from SESSs and based upon user related information which may be stored e.g. a user profile by user system . The user profile may include information about a user s likes dislikes preferences commonly visited web pages concepts or topics of interest to the user virtual user groups of interest to the user and other information characterizing the user s preferences or the user s browsing behavior.

According to an embodiment of the present invention an automated virtual user group selector module is provided which executes on user system and identifies virtual user groups of potential interest to the user based upon user information accessible via user system e.g. user information stored in a user profile file . Information related to virtual user groups identified by the automated virtual user group selector module to be of potential interest to the user may be presented to the user via an output device coupled to user system . Like with the other virtual user group identification techniques according to the present invention the processing performed to automatically identify virtual user groups of interest to the user is performed locally on user system substantially free from any interaction with SESSs VUGHSSs and index server . The user thus has complete control over the type of information which is stored by the identification techniques and over the dissemination of the information. This helps preserve the privacy and security of the user.

The user profile information may have been collected using various techniques. Examples of techniques for collecting user information and generating user profiles are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 510 902 entitled METHOD FOR CREATING USER PROFILES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 511 034 entitled SYSTEM FOR CREATING USER PROFILES and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 510 904 entitled COMPUTER PROGRAM FOR CREATING USER PROFILES the entire disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference for all purposes.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the localized search engine described above may also be used to collect user information which may be used for building a user profile. The localized search engine may provide a user configurable option which when selected by the user enables the localized search engine to mine the query information provided by the user to the localized search engine. The information mined by the localized search engine may then be used to build or augment the user profile information stored by user system . Since the mining tracking of information is user configurable and performed locally on user system the user can control when and what type of information is mined by the localized search engine. Further since the mined information is stored locally on the user system the user also has complete control over the distribution communication of the tracked information. The privacy of user information is thus not compromised.

Various other techniques may also be used to identify virtual user groups of interest to the user based upon index information received from index server and or from SESSs .

Referring back to the user may then join or become a member of one or more virtual user groups from the virtual user groups identified in step step . The process of joining a virtual user group according to the teachings of the present invention is described in the following section.

As described above the present invention enables a user to identify virtual user groups of interest to the user in a network environment without compromising user privacy. Instead of using remote search engine servers which can mine user information to identify virtual user groups of interest to the user the present invention identifies the relevant virtual user groups based upon index information received by user system . Since the process of identifying virtual user groups of interest to the user is performed locally on user system using index information locally stored on user system remote servers such as index server SESSs and VUGHSSs do not receive any information e.g. search queries etc. related to the user which can be mined to build user profiles. Accordingly the identification of virtual user groups of interest to the user is performed by the user system substantially free from any interactions with other computer systems coupled to communication network . User privacy and security is consequently preserved.

Techniques for Joining One or More Virtual User Groups of Interest to a User and for Receiving Information Related to Virtual User Groups Joined by the User without Compromising the User s Privacy

After virtual user groups of interest to the user have been identified e.g. according to flowchart depicted in the user may then join or become a member of one or more of the identified virtual user groups. In general use of the phrase join a virtual user group is intended to include becoming a member of the virtual user group registering as an user of the virtual user group enrolling in a virtual user group subscribing to a virtual user group enlisting in a virtual user group and the like.

As depicted in the user may manually select one or more virtual user groups to which the user desires to join step . For example virtual user groups identified by the localized search engine may be output to the user via an output device e.g. a monitor coupled to the user system. According to an embodiment of the present invention the virtual user groups may be presented to the user via a browser enabled interface. From the virtual user groups presented to the user the user may then using an input device coupled to user system e.g. a mouse manually select one or more virtual user groups which the user desires to join.

Alternatively virtual user groups of which the user is to be made a member may be automatically selected step . For example the automated virtual user group selector module described above may automatically identify virtual user groups of potential interest to the user based upon user information accessible via user system e.g. user information stored in a user profile file . According to an embodiment of the present invention the virtual user groups identified by the automated virtual user group selector module are presented to the user via an output interface e.g. via a browser interface and the user is manually allowed to select one or more virtual user groups to join according to step . However in alternative embodiments of the present invention automated virtual user group selector module may automatically select one or more of the virtual user groups identified by the automated virtual user group selector module to be joined by the user according to step .

Information identifying the virtual user groups selected in steps and or is then stored locally on user system step . The stored information corresponds to membership information for the user. According to an embodiment of the present invention a membership processor module is provided which executes on user system and is configured to receive information identifying the virtual user groups selected in steps and or and store the information in a membership information file on user system . The information stored in the membership information file identifies all the virtual user groups which the user has joined. For each virtual user group joined by the user the information stored in the membership information file may comprise information identifying the virtual user group information indicating the subject or topic to which the virtual user group is dedicated information identifying the VUGHSS hosting the virtual user group and other information.

The membership processor module then determines VUGHSSs which host the virtual user groups identified in steps and step . For each VUGHSS identified in step a message is sent from user system to the VUGHSS instructing the VUGHSS to send to user system on a continuing basis information related to all virtual user groups hosted by the VUGHSS including information related to virtual user groups not joined by the user step . As explained below the virtual user groups information received by user system from the VUGHSSs is then processed at user system to extract information related to virtual user groups which the user has joined.

As can be seen from flowchart depicted in according to the teachings of the present invention VUGHSSs do not receive any information related to the virtual user groups which the user has joined. The VUGHSSs only receive a message from user system indicating that information related to all virtual user groups including virtual user groups not joined by the user hosted by the VUGHSSs is to be communicated to user system . Thus VUGHSSs have no way of determining which specific virtual user groups the user has joined.

Unlike prior art systems the VUGHSSs also do not receive any user specific information such as the name of the user the address of the user and the like. Since the membership information which may be stored in a membership information file is stored locally on user system the user has complete control over the distribution of the information and can prevent all unauthorized access to the information. Consequently VUGHSSs do not have access to any information related to the user or information regarding the virtual user groups joined by the user which can be used to build user profiles or which can be sold or distributed without the user s permission. In this manner the user s privacy is preserved.

After the user has joined one or more virtual user groups e.g. according to flowchart depicted in the user may then receive information related to the virtual user groups which the user has joined e.g. information sent by other members of the virtual user groups . is a simplified high level flowchart depicting processing performed for receiving information related to virtual user groups which the user has joined according to an embodiment of the present invention. Flowchart depicted in is merely illustrative of an embodiment incorporating the present invention and does not limit the scope of the invention as recited in the claims. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize other variations modifications and alternatives. All of the steps depicted in are performed on user system . These steps may be performed by hardware modules or by software modules executing on user system or combinations thereof.

As depicted in user system receives related information from VUGHSSs which host virtual user groups joined by the user step . The information received in step comprises information related to all virtual user groups hosted by the VUGHSSs including information related to virtual user groups not joined by the user. According to an embodiment of the present invention a VUGHSS may be configured to communicate information related to all virtual user groups hosted by the VUGHSS to user system at periodic time intervals. According to an alternative embodiment of the present invention for each virtual user group hosted by a VUGHSS the VUGHSS may be configured to communicate information related to the virtual user group to user system whenever VUGHSS receives information related to the virtual user group.

Upon receiving the information according to step a module e.g. a content analysis module executing on user system accesses user membership information stored locally on user system to determine the virtual user groups which the user has joined step . According to an embodiment of the present invention information for the virtual user groups identified in step is then extracted from the information received in step step . The extracted information comprises information related to virtual user groups which the user has joined. During step content analysis module determines if the information received in step contains information related to virtual user groups joined by the user i.e. the virtual user groups determined in step .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the content analysis module may determine one or more topics to which information received in step is related. The content analysis module may then determine topics related to the virtual user groups determined in step . If the information received in step and a particular virtual user group determined in step are both related to the same topic then that information may be identified as being related or relevant to the particular virtual user group. If the content analysis module determines that the information received in step comprises information related to virtual user groups identified in step then that information is extracted.

The information extracted in step is then output to the user step . According to an embodiment of the present invention the extracted information may be output to the user via a browser enabled interface. In this manner the user can access and view information related to virtual user groups joined by the user.

According to the teachings of the present invention steps and depicted in are performed by user system substantially free from any interaction with VUGHSSs SESSs and index server . In particular VUGHSSs do not receive any information about the virtual user groups which the user has joined. VUGHSSs also do not have any knowledge about the virtual user group related information accessed by the user using user system . VUGHSSs cannot determine or track any user related information and thus have no way of determining which specific virtual user groups the user has joined. Consequently the VUGHSSs do not have access to and or cannot track or mine user related information which can be used to build user profiles or which can be sold or distributed without the user s permission. In this manner the user s privacy is preserved.

An alternative embodiment of the current invention uses a content driven network which allows a user to subscribe to and receive content related to a virtual user group with privacy. A content driven network is a virtual broadcast network set up within a communication network such as the Internet by a set of routers that implement a content driven routing protocol. The client computers at the edge of the network register with their nearest routers the topics they are interested in. For example a particular user client computer could inform the nearest router that it is interested in Baseball content. The router aggregates all the topics of interest to all the clients and subscribes to the aggregated list of topics from the upstream node. Thus when the router receives content on Baseball it automatically forwards the content to all user client systems which have subscribed to Baseball. In this model the subscription information is stored at the local router not at the central server thus preserving user privacy.

Techniques for Allowing a User to Exchange Content Information with Other Members of a Virtual User Group without Compromising the User s Privacy

As depicted in a content source whose contents are to be communicated to other members of a virtual user group to which the user belongs is identified and or selected on the user system step . Examples of content sources include a web page viewed by the user an electronic message configured by the user a document viewed by the user and other types of information sources accessed or viewed by the user.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the user can manually indicate the content source whose contents are to be communicated to the other virtual user group members. For example if the user is viewing a web page e.g. a web page showing a Thai recipe using a browser executing on user system and would like to share contents of the web page with other members of a particular virtual user group e.g. a virtual user group dedicated to Thai cooking to which the user belongs the user may use the browser to tag or select the web page as a content source whose contents are to be shared with other members of the particular virtual user group. A menu option a button or some other selection means may be provided by the browser which allows the user to select the content source. Various other techniques other than techniques provided by the browser might also be provided to allow the user to select the content source and the information to be shared with other members of a virtual user group to which the user belongs using user system .

In alternative embodiments of the present invention the content information to be shared with other members of a virtual user group to which the user belongs may be identified automatically by user system based on documents web pages or other content information sources accessed or viewed by the user. In this embodiment a content analysis module is provided which executes on user system and analyzes the contents of documents or other content sources viewed or accessed by the user using user system . The content analysis module analyzes the contents of the content source to determine if the contents are relevant to or related to one or more virtual user groups of which the user is a member. If the content analysis module identifies a particular document or content source to contain content information which is relevant to a particular virtual user group to which the user belongs then that content source or document is automatically tagged or selected by the content analysis module as comprising content information to be communicated to other members of the particular virtual user group.

The content analysis module may use several techniques to automatically determine if a document or content source is relevant to virtual user groups which the user has joined. According to an embodiment of the present invention content analysis module analyzes the contents of the document or content source viewed by the user and classifies the document as containing information related to a particular subject or topic. Content analysis module then determines for example based on information in the membership information file stored on user system if the particular topic or subject of the document relates to one or more virtual user groups joined by the user. If the particular subject or topic of the document is related to a particular virtual user group than that document is tagged as containing content information relevant to the particular virtual user group and content information of the document is selected to be communicated to other members of the particular virtual user group.

For example lets assume that the user is viewing a web page displaying a Thai cooking recipe and that the user is a member of a virtual user group dedicated to Thai Cooking. The content analysis module processes the contents of the web page and classifies the web page as containing information related to Thai cooking. Content analysis module then accesses the membership information file for the user to determine virtual user groups which the user has joined and determines that the web page is related to the virtual user group dedicated to Thai cooking. The contents of the web page are then selected to be shared with other members of the virtual user group dedicated to Thai cooking.

Referring back to after content information i.e. content contained in the content source identified in step to be shared with members of a virtual user group has been identified or selected either manually by the user or automatically user system then determines VUGHSSs to which the content information is to be communicated step . According to an embodiment of the present invention all the VUGHSSs which host virtual user groups joined by the user are selected to receive the content information identified in step from user system . According to another embodiment modules executing on user system determine the specific virtual user group s to which the content information is relevant and select only the VUGHSSs hosting those specific virtual user group s to receive the content information.

The content information selected in step is then communicated from user system referred to as the source user system for clarity to VUGHSSs identified in step step . Each VUGHSS which receives the content information then broadcasts the content information to all user systems who have registered to receive virtual user groups information from the VUGHSS step . These user systems generally include systems of users who have joined at least one virtual user group hosted by the VUGHSS . The content information broadcast by the VUGHSSs is then received by user systems who have indicated to the VUGHSSs that they are interested in receiving information for all virtual user groups hosted by the VUGHSSs step . For sake of discussion these user systems will be referred to as target user systems to differentiate them from the source user system which communicated the content information to the VUGHSSs . The user of a target user system will be referred to as a target user. 

The format in which content information is communicated from the source user system to VUGHSS and from VUGHSS to the target user system may vary in different embodiments of the present invention. According to an embodiment of the present invention the content information may be communicated in the same format as the original content source. For example if the content source selected in step was a web page the content information might be communicated from the source user system to VUGHSS and from VUGHSS to the target user system in the form of a web page. However in alternative embodiments of the present invention various other formats e.g. plain text word processor format email fax image etc. may also be used to communicate the contents of the selected web page.

A target system then determines whether the content information received from one or more VUGHSSs is related to or relevant to the virtual user groups joined by the target user step . As described above the content analysis module may use several different techniques to determine if the content information received from the VUGHSSs is related to one or more virtual user groups of which the target user is a member. According to an embodiment of the present invention a content analysis module executing on the target user system determines the virtual user groups which the target user has joined by accessing membership information for the target user stored on the target user system. The content analysis module then determines if the content information is related to one or more virtual user groups joined by the user.

If the content analysis module determines in step that the content information is related to at least one virtual user group of which the target user is a member then the content information is output to the target user step . Conversely if the content analysis module determines in step that the content information is not related to any virtual user group of which the target user is a member then the content information is not output to the target user.

For example lets assume that the content information included contents of a web page displaying a Thai recipe and the target user is a member of the virtual user group dedicated to Thai cooking. In this scenario the content analysis module executing on the target user system determines that the content information is relevant to the Thai cooking virtual user group of which the target user is a member and the contents of the web page are output to the target user via an output device coupled to target user system . According to an embodiment of the present invention the content information is output to the target user via a browser enabled interface. However in alternative embodiments of the present invention the content information may be output to the user in other forms such as an electronic mail message a fax as audio signals as video signals etc.

In this manner a member of a particular virtual user group can identify content information to be shared with other members of a virtual user group joined by the user. The content information identified by the user or automatically identified is then communicated to other members of the virtual user group and can be accessed by the members using the members user systems. Information of common interest can thus be shared between members of a virtual user group. The user identifying the content information need not know the email addresses or contact information of the other members of the virtual user group in order to share the information with the other members. Further during the entire information exchange process VUGHSSs do not have access to any user related information. VUGHSSs also do not receive or have access to information which might allow the VUGHSSs to deduce virtual user groups to which the user or the other members belong. The privacy of the user and other members of the virtual user group is thus preserved.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the modules depicted in include a browser program module a localized search engine module an automated virtual user group selector module a membership processor module a content analysis module and a communication module . The information stored by user system may include index information user profile information and membership information . Index information contains information related to virtual user groups hosted by computer systems in a network environment. As described above index information is received from index server or from SESSs . User profile information comprises information related to the user s preferences likes dislikes etc. Membership information comprises information identifying one or more virtual user groups which the user of user system has joined and become a member. Index information user profile information and membership information can be stored in the storage subsystem of user system .

According to an embodiment of the present invention communication module is configured to facilitate communication of information and data to and from user system . Communication module receives index information either from index server or from SESSs . Communication module may store the index information in the storage subsystem of user system or may alternatively forward the index information to appropriate modules of user system . Communication module is also configured to communicate messages received from membership processor module to VUGHSSs instructing VUGHSSs to send information related to virtual user groups even virtual user groups which the user has not joined hosted by VUGHSSs to the user system. Communication module may receive content information to be shared with members of a virtual user group from content analysis module . Communication module is configured to communicate the content information to the appropriate VUGHSSs as described above. Communication module may also receive content information and virtual user groups related information from VUGHSSs . The content information and virtual user groups related information received by communication module is forwarded to content analysis module for further processing. Communication of other information to and from user system is also handled by communication module .

As described above browser program allows a user to select retrieve and access information resources stored by communication network . Examples of browsers include the Internet Explorer browser program provided by Microsoft Corporation and the Netscape Navigator browser provided by Netscape Corporation and others. In a Web environment browsers allow users to access web pages. According to an embodiment of the present invention browser provides an interface for outputting virtual user group related information to the user and for receiving inputs selections from the user. For example a user may configure and provide search requests queries to local search engine via browser . Virtual user groups identified by local search engine in response to the queries are output to the user via browser . Virtual user groups selected by automated virtual user group selector module may also be output to the user via browser . The user may use browser to select one or more virtual user groups which the user desires to join. Browser forwards information identifying the virtual user groups selected by the user to membership processor for further processing. The user may also use browser to identify content information to be shared exchanged with other members of a virtual user group. Virtual user group related information and content information related to virtual user groups joined by the user may be output to the user via browser . Browser may also allow the user to interact with the modules depicted in .

According to an embodiment of the present invention localized search engine is configured to identify virtual user groups of interest to the user based upon index information and based upon search queries received from the user describing topics or concepts of interest to the user and for which the user is interested in finding relevant virtual user groups. As shown in localized search engine may receive the user search queries requests via browser . In alternative embodiments of the present invention localized search engine may receive search queries directly from the user e.g. via a user interface provided by localized search engine . Upon receiving a user query localized search engine may search index information to identify relevant virtual user groups which satisfy the user search query. Information identifying the relevant virtual user groups may be provided to the user via browser .

According to an embodiment of the present invention localized search engine may also track and or mine information contained in the search queries provided by the user. The option to mine user query information is user configurable. The information mined by localized search engine may be used to build or augment user profile information which may be stored in the storage subsystem of user system .

According to an embodiment of the present invention automated virtual user group selector module is configured to automatically identify virtual user groups of interest to the user based upon user profile information and index information . Information related to the virtual user groups identified by automated document selector module to be of interest to the user may be provided to the user via browser . According to an embodiment of the present invention information related to virtual user groups automatically identified by automated document selector module to be of interest to the user is forwarded to membership processor for further processing.

Membership processor module is configured to handle operations related to joining virtual user groups. The user may manually identify the virtual user groups which the user wants to join using browser . Information identifying the virtual user groups selected by the user is received by membership processor module via browser and is stored by membership module in membership information . Membership processor module may also receive information related to virtual user groups automatically identified by automated virtual user group selector module . This information is also stored in membership information . Membership module determines the VUGHSSs hosting the virtual user groups listed in membership information and sends a message to the VUGHSSs instructing the VUGHSSs to send information related to all virtual user groups even virtual user groups which the user has not joined hosted by VUGHSSs to the user system.

Content analysis module is configured to determine information which is related to virtual user groups joined by the user and to present the relevant information to the user. Content analysis module is configured to receive virtual user groups related information received by a VUGHSS to determine virtual user groups which the user has joined based on information stored in membership information and to extract information related to virtual user groups joined by the user from the information received from VUGHSS . The extracted information may be presented to the user via browser . Content analysis module is also configured to receive content information broadcast by VUGHSSs and to determine if the content information is related to at least one virtual user group which the user has joined. If content analysis module determines that the content information is related to at least one virtual user group of which the user is a member the content information is output to the user. for example via browser .

According to an embodiment of the present invention content analysis module is also configured to facilitate sharing of content information accessed or viewed by the user with other members of a virtual user group. Content analysis module is configured to receive content information identified to be shared with members of a virtual user group. As described above the content information may be manually identified by the user or may be automatically identified by content analysis module . In order to automatically identify the content information content analysis module is configured to monitor documents e.g. web pages and other content information sources accessed by the user e.g. via browser . Content analysis module is configured to determine if the content information accessed by the user relates to a virtual user group of which the user is a member and if it is so determined the content information is selected to be shared with other members of the virtual user group to which the content information is related. The selected content information is then forwarded by content analysis module to communication module for communication to the appropriate VUGHSSs as described above in conjunction with .

Although specific embodiments of the invention have been described various modifications alterations alternative constructions and equivalents are also encompassed within the scope of the invention. The described invention is not restricted to operation within certain specific data processing environments but is free to operate within a plurality of data processing environments. Additionally although the present invention has been described using a particular series of transactions and steps it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the scope of the present invention is not limited to the described series of transactions and steps.

Further while the present invention has been described using a particular combination of hardware and software it should be recognized that other combinations of hardware and software are also within the scope of the present invention. The present invention may be implemented only in hardware or only in software or using combinations thereof.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that additions subtractions deletions and other modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

