---

title: Method and apparatus for one number mapping directory presence service
abstract: A method includes associating an e-mail address with a plurality of telephone numbers; associating one of the telephone numbers with a one number service (); allowing telephone calls to the one of the telephone numbers by selecting the e-mail address. In some embodiments, the allowing telephone calls comprises calling a programmed caller number and calling to a called party number associated with the e-mail address. In some embodiments, a called party and a calling party are subscribers to a one-number service ().
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08594295&OS=08594295&RS=08594295
owner: Siemens Enterprise Communications, Inc.
number: 08594295
owner_city: Boca Raton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071017
---
This application is the US National Stage of International Application No. PCT US2007 022166 filed on Oct. 17 2007 and claims the benefit thereof and international Application No. PCT US2007 022166 claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 853 126 filed Oct. 20 2006 titled ReachMe Service which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety as if fully set forth herein.

This invention relates to telecommunications systems. More particularly the invention relates to an improved one number service.

Users of telecommunications services increasingly desire to be reachable at all times. To this end users often have a plurality of telecommunications devices and hence telephone numbers. For example a user can have one or more business home and cellular telephones and corresponding telephone numbers. Paradoxically this proliferation of devices can inhibit communication as a caller does not necessarily know at which device the user is available. Thus actually completing a call to the user can require the dialing of a plurality of telephone numbers which can be relatively time consuming and frustrating for the caller.

One Number Service ONS is a service which allows a user to have one telephone number for multiple telephones. The user can specify an ONS telephone number and or a personal identification number PIN where the call can be received at a given time. For example the user can have a call to the given number forwarded to his cell phone his business phone or his home phone.

Telephonic communication is frequently triggered by reception of an e mail. However if the e mail itself does not contain the sender s ONS identification the user must manually look up the ONS number or PIN. Further if a caller has multiple entries in his address book for the user he does not necessarily know which of the numbers is the ONS one number which can obviate any advantage in having the One Number Service.

In addition traditional One Number Services are essentially local to a given premises or company. While network federation implementations could allow for One Number Service across companies they are relatively complex and expensive processes particularly when only a small number of employees from each of the interworking companies need to interact. In such cases the usual option is to completely forego a One Number Service. Thus users generally cannot readily leverage or make use of ONS tools to reach or collaborate with someone across premises or companies. Again this limits the advantages of having the One Number Service.

Finally existing One Number Services are associated with individual users rather than a particular enterprise or business entity. Thus if the user leaves the enterprise he takes his One Number Service and hence his contacts with him. Thus existing One Number Services are not necessarily retained by the enterprise.

These and other drawbacks in the prior art are overcome in large part by a system and method according to embodiments of the present invention.

Embodiments of the present invention provide an improved one number service. A telecommunications service according to embodiments of the present invention includes a one number service configured to allow subscribers to associate a plurality of telephone numbers with one of multiple numbers a registry service configured to allow subscribers to associate the number with an e mail address and a dialing service configured to call the number responsive to receiving as an input the e mail address. According to some embodiments a telecommunications service further includes an e mail generator configured to send an invitation to subscribe to the e mail registry and one number services if a sender of e mail is not a subscriber. Other embodiments include a packet telephone interface for making a telephone call to the dialed number over a packet network.

A method according to embodiments of the present invention includes associating an e mail address with a plurality of telephone numbers associating one of the telephone numbers with a one number service allowing telephone calls to the one of the telephone numbers by selecting the e mail address. In some embodiments the allowing telephone calls comprises calling a programmed caller number and calling to a called party number associated with the e mail address. In some embodiments a called party and a calling party are subscribers to a one number service.

Turning now to the drawings and with particular attention to a diagram of a telecommunications system according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown. The telecommunications system may include a processing system which may include or be in communication with a telephony service and a one number service . In addition the processing system may include or implement a ReachMe registry service in accordance with embodiments of the present invention as will be explained in greater detail below.

The processing system may include or be in communication with an e mail service an e mail registry a presence and availability service and a presence and availability registry . As will be explained in greater detail below the e mail service may implement an e mail server for forwarding e mails to and from one or more users. The e mail registry may identify users and e mail addresses. The e mail registry thus may include user lists such as address books or contact lists for individual users.

The presence and availability service monitors the presence status or context of one or more users or devices. The presence and availability service may be or include an application that monitors the presence and availability of devices or identities. That is the presence and availability service monitors the presence state or device context of one or more devices. The presence and availability service may further determine a user presence status or identity context from the device information. The presence and availability registry maintains one or more lists of parties to be monitored for particular users and may further define availability rules for those users. These lists may include for example user lists such as a user s buddy or presence contact lists and users allowed to call me lists.

The processing system may further be in communication with one or more messaging clients presence clients and ReachMe clients in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. As will be explained in greater detail below the clients permit communication with and control of the respective services and may allow maintenance of contact or user lists for each of the clients which may be communicated to the respective services and or registries.

User devices such as user devices may be connected to or in communication with the processing system . In certain embodiments the user devices may be implemented as telephones cellular telephones PDAs computers hard or soft clients etc. For example user devices may be embodied as personal computers implementing the Windows XP operating system and the Explorer web browser. In addition the user devices may include telephony and other multimedia messaging capability using for example peripheral cameras Webcams microphones and speakers not shown or peripheral telephony handsets such as the optPoint handset available from Siemens Communication Inc. The user devices may communicate with or control the messaging client the ReachMe client and the presence client as well as the e mail and PAS registries . In some embodiments the various registries are provided at network servers remote from the client devices . In other embodiments the registries are local to each client device.

In certain embodiments the system may also include other hardware and or software components e.g. gateways proxy servers registration server presence servers redirect servers databases applications etc. such as for example hardware and software used to support a SIP Session Initiation Protocol or other protocol based infrastructure for the system and allow the registration of SIP devices in the system .

The processing system may be implemented in hardware and or software operating on one or more servers computer systems host or mainframe computers workstations etc. In some embodiments the processing system may be operating on some or all of the same devices as other components in the system .

As will be explained in greater detail below in some embodiments of the present invention an improved One Number service is provided. The ReachMe service receives a party s e mail address as an input and accesses a corresponding One Number telephone number. The One Number service then causes the telephony service to call out to the calling party at a predetermined number and to the called party at the appropriate number.

In addition certain embodiments of the present invention provide for a viral presence adoption. In particular the ReachMe service allows for users to import entries from an e mail registry into the PAS registry . That is users can batch import address book contacts from for example an Outlook address book into the user s presence contact and watch lists. That is the entries in a user s address book are used to pre populate the user s buddy or contact list and allowed to call me list. If a party who is on the user s allowed to call me list is not a subscriber to the presence ReachMe service he may become one. In such cases his user lists such as his buddy list or allowed to call me list will be pre populated with the user s name and those of other subscribers who have the new party on their allowed to call me and or other user lists. Because the resulting presence contact buddy list s may be unmanageably large embodiments of the present invention allow for convenient organizing of the lists as will be explained in greater detail below.

The presence and availability service may be implemented in software operating on one or more servers computer systems host or mainframe computers workstations etc. In some embodiments the presence and availability service may be operating on some or all of the same device s as other components in the system .

In some embodiments the presence and availability service may be or include an application that communicates with or is connected to one or more registered devices e.g. devices that allows devices to register with the system or helps facilitate their registration etc. For example in a SIP environment the devices may be registered with the system and may show up or be described in registration databases as being assigned to particular identities.

A presence and availability service that may be suitably adapted for use in conjunction with the present invention is the OpenScape system available from Siemens Comm. Inc.

The telephony service may be implemented as a conventional telephone service or may be implemented as a Voice over IP telephony system such as those implementing the Session Initiation Protocol SIP . The telephony service may include one or more dialers or dialing services for dialing out to and connecting various of the user devices in telephony communication. The telephony service may be implemented in hardware and or software operating on one or more servers computer systems host or mainframe computers workstations etc. In some embodiments the telephony service may be operating on some or all of the same device s as other components in the system .

The One Number service may be a service that allows users to set a number as a one number calling of which follows the user to predetermined telephones and or telephone numbers. The One Number service may be implemented in hardware and or software operating on one or more servers computer systems host or mainframe computers workstations etc. In some embodiments the One Number service may be operating on some or all of the same device s as other components in the system .

The ReachMe registry service allows users to register an e mail address and associate it with or map it to a telephone number. The e mail address thus functions as a global identifier. Receiving the e mail address input causes the ReachMe service to access the number and in conjunction with the One Number service to call out to the corresponding party. In addition the ReachMe registry service allows users to import entries from their e mail address books to their presence contact and other lists and to organize them efficiently. The ReachMe registry service can also pre populate a new subscriber s presence contract and other lists with the names of existing subscribers who have the new subscriber on their user lists such as thier allowed to call me lists.

The ReachMe registry service may be implemented in hardware and or software operating on one or more servers computer systems host or mainframe computers workstations etc. In some embodiments the ReachMe registry service may be operating on some or all of the same device s as other components in the system .

In certain embodiments of the present invention one or more of the components of the system may be connected to or in communication with each other via a communication network. For example turning now to a system including the components of the system is illustrated wherein some or all of the components are in communication via a network . The network may be or include the Internet World Wide Web a local area network or some other public or private computer cable telephone client server peer to peer or communication network or intranet. In some embodiments the communication network can also include other public and or private wide area networks local area networks wireless networks data communications networks or connections intranets routers satellite links microwave links cellular or telephone networks radio links fiber optic transmission lines ISDN lines T1 lines DSL connections the public switched telephone network PSTN etc. Moreover as used herein communications include those enabled by wired or wireless technology. In some embodiments some or all of the network may be implemented using a TCP IP network and may implement voice or multimedia over IP using for example the Session Initiation Protocol SIP .

In addition as will be explained in greater detail below in certain embodiments the ReachMe registry service allows a service provider to connect users on different on premise and hosted systems and allows service providers to facilitate adoption and efficient communication.

As discussed above one aspect of the present invention relates to providing an improved One Number service. Operation of such a service is illustrated by way of example in . Shown in are exemplary e mail addresses victor siemens.com and bill siemens.com. Victor is associated with phone numbers 408 492 555 1212 408 555 7000 and 408 555 7001. Bill is associated with telephone numbers 408 555 1213 408 555 8000 and 408 555 8001. The numbers 408 555 1212 and 408 555 1213 are associated with a One Number service. Dialing the One Number associated numbers allows a call to be received at the subsidiary numbers e.g. 408 555 7000 408 555 7001 or 408 555 8000 408 555 8001 respectively. According to embodiments of the present invention a user can select or enter the e mail address. The e mail address is associated with the corresponding one number such that a call can be made to the one number responsive to clicking selecting or entering the e mail address. It is noted that while illustrates dedicated pilot one numbers 408 555 1212 and 408 555 1213 in association with a one number service in other embodiments the e mail address can simply be associated with any of the user s numbers. Thus in some embodiments no such pilot number is required.

This is illustrated more particularly with respect to . Shown in is a ReachMe subscription service including a ReachMe registry service and coupled to or in communication with a One Number Service . The ReachMe service stores lists of subscribers including e mail addresses and associated telephone numbers and in particular One Numbers. Also shown are user devices and . The user devices may implement ReachMe clients in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. As shown the user associated with device is a subscriber to the One Number service and thus has a plurality of telephone devices such as . A user of device also may be a subscriber and may have an associated telephone or computer telephony client as well as others not shown .

In operation user of device may select or enter an e mail address using for example the ReachMe client . The ReachMe client may be implemented as a standalone client or a plug in or web browser type client that can communicate with the ReachMe service over the Internet. The ReachMe client thus will send a signal or instruction to the ReachMe service indicative of the selected e mail address. In response the ReachMe service accesses its database s not shown for subscribers associated with the e mail address and finds a corresponding telephone number such as a number associated with a One Number Service. The One Number Service then calls out or causes a telephony service to call out to a predetermined number associated with the calling party user at . The One Number Service further calls out or causes a telephony service to call out to the party associated with the e mail address at . Since the number may be associated with a plurality of numbers the call may actually be received at any of devices .

Turning now to a flowchart illustrating operation of embodiment of the present invention is shown. The particular arrangement of elements in the flowchart is not meant to imply a fixed order to the elements embodiments can be practiced in any order that is practicable.

Initially in a step a user can establish an e mail account. In a process step the user can subscribe to a presence account. In a process step the user can subscribe to a One Number service. In a process step a user can subscribe to a ReachMe service and download the ReachMe client . In a process step the user can associate the e mail address with the One Number Service using the ReachMe client and for example an interface such as shown in . This can include for example telephone numbers associated with the e mail address for receiving calls as well as a calling party telephone number for making calls. Finally in a process step the information can be made available to other subscribers for example by being uploaded by the ReachMe registry into one or more databases not shown .

Turning now to a flowchart illustrating operation of embodiment of the present invention is shown. The particular arrangement of elements in the flowchart is not meant to imply a fixed order to the elements embodiments can be practiced in any order that is practicable.

In a process step a user can open his ReachMe client to access a list of names and e mail addresses and click on or otherwise enter an e mail address he wishes to call. In a process step the ReachMe service reads the e mail address and accesses the appropriate telephone number. In a step the ReachMe service causes the One Number Service to call out the appropriate calling party number and called party number.

Turning now to a flowchart illustrating operation of embodiment of the present invention is shown. The particular arrangement of elements in the flowchart is not meant to imply a fixed order to the elements embodiments can be practiced in any order that is practicable.

In a process step a user can open an e mail using for example his e mail client . In a process step a user can use a cursor pointing device to drag the e mail address to the ReachMe client or icon in a graphical user interface not shown . In a step the ReachMe client can check if the e mail address is associated with a subscriber. If it is then in a step the ReachMe client can cause the One Number service to call in a manner similar to that discussed above. Otherwise in a process step the ReachMe client will cause the messaging client to display the corresponding address book entry. In a process step the corresponding number may be selected. In a process step the user can generate an invitation e mail to the party for example through communication with the e mail service . The invitation indicates to the contacted party that someone is trying to reach him through the ReachMe One Number service and that he can provide better accessibility by signing up for it. In some embodiments the e mail may further include for example one or more hyperlinks to a web page or site for subscribing to the service. Finally the number can be called in a process step .

Turning now to a diagram illustrating signaling according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown.

Communication among subscribers is shown at . Shown are ReachMe service One Number service and user devices and . At a user of device can log in to the ReachMe service such as via his ReachMe client not shown . At he can click on select or otherwise enter an e mail address. At the request is sent to the ReachMe service . At the ReachMe service uses the e mail address to check if the e mail address corresponds to a subscriber. If so then in the ReachMe service accesses the number providing it to the One Number service . At the One Number Service calls out to the calling party and at calls out to the called party. The parties are connected at .

Communication with a non subscriber is shown at . At a user of device can log in to the ReachMe service such as via his ReachMe client not shown . At he can click on select or otherwise enter an e mail address to send the request to the ReachMe service . At the ReachMe service uses the e mail address to check if the e mail address corresponds to a subscriber. If the prospective called party is not a subscriber then at the ReachMe service will send a message to the caller indicating this. At the user can check his address book for the called party and see if there is a phone number associated with the e mail. If so he can select it at . This will send it to the ReachMe service at . The One Number service or the telephony service can then call the number and the caller at . The user may be prompted to send an invitation request to the called party which he can do at . The request may for example be of the form of an e mail or other message. Further it is noted that in some embodiments the ReachMe service may itself automatically check a network stored address book associated with the user for an entry corresponding to a non subscriber. In addition in some emboidments the system can generate the invitation automatically. Thus the figures are exemplary only.

As discussed above in certain embodiments of the present invention a ReachMe service is provided which allows users to call other subscribers via their e mail addresses. In addition an improved system and method for adopting a presence or related service may be provided. In some embodiments the ReachMe service may be provided as a peer to peer registry service with a presence and availability service provided in conjunction with a network provider. Such a service provides advantages to service providers in that it allows service providers to provide a One Number Service across networks and platforms and also provides enhanced methods for adopting such services. An exemplary network configuration is shown in .

The network may be exemplary of an intelligent multimedia network offering for example telephony Internet voice over IP VoIP conferencing messaging presence and the like. An exemplary network that may suitably be used in conjunction with embodiments of the present invention is the AT T telecommunications network.

The network includes a ReachMe peer to peer registry service which may be coupled to or in communication with a proxy service and one or more Openscape Managed Services . The ReachMe registry service the proxy service and the Openscape Managed Services may be implemented on one or more network servers and respectively. Openscape is a system available from Siemens Comm. Inc. that provides unification of various communication and presence functions as will be explained in greater detail below. The present invention however is not limited to Openscape. 

The Openscape Managed Services and the peer to peer registry service provide services to one or more network subscribers such as enterprise WAN enterprise WAN and small medium enterprise small medium enterprise . In addition the ReachMe service may interface to one or more non subscribers .

The enterprise and enterprise may implement one or more instance of the Openscape middleware for communicating with the Openscape managed service s provided by the network as well as one or more instances of ReachMe clients in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. A proxy service may be provided for communicating between the enterprise networks and the network servers. The small medium enterprise networks may communicate via other Openscape managed services respectively. Large enterprise networks can implement their own Openscape middleware while small medium enterprises may require network based implementations of such services . As will be explained in greater detail below the users of each of the networks may subscribe and take advantage of the registry services . Thus the registry services provide functionality that is independent of specific enterprise implementations.

Turning now to a functional model diagram illustrating an Openscape middleware services and Reachme client is shown. More particularly is a logical diagram illustrating a particular embodiment of a middleware or managed services that can communicate with registry service . The middleware may be implemented on a server and includes a plurality of application modules and a communication broker module . In addition interfaces such as APIs application programming interfaces to SIP phones and gateways interworking units may be provided. The ReachMe client may interact with the various services and applications as will be explained in greater detail below.

According to the embodiment illustrated the broker module includes a basic services module a presence module an advanced services module and a software developers toolkit module .

The basic services module functions to implement for example phone support PBX interfaces call features and management as well as Windows Messaging and RTC add ins when necessary. The phone support features allow maintenance of and access to buddy lists and provide presence status.

The advanced services module implements function such as presence multipoint control unit MCU recording and the like. MCU functions are used for voice conferencing and support ad hoc and dynamic conference creation from a buddy list following the SIP conferencing model for ad hoc conferences. In certain embodiments support for G.711 and G.723.1 codecs is provided. Further in certain embodiments the MCU can distribute media processing over multiple servers using the MEGACO protocol.

Presence features provide device context for both SIP registered devices and user defined non SIP devices. Various user contexts such as In Meeting On Vacation In the Office etc. can be provided for. In addition voice e mail and instant messaging availability may be provided across the user s devices. The presence feature enables real time call control using presence information e.g. to choose a destination based on the presence of a user s devices. In addition various components have a central repository for presence information and for changing and querying presence information. In addition the presence module provides a user interface for presenting the user with presence information.

The broker module may include the ComResponse platform available from Siemens Information and Communication Networks Inc. ComResponse features include speech recognition speech to text and text to speech and allow for creation of scripts for applications.

In addition real time call control is provided by a SIP API associated with the basic services module . That is calls can be intercepted in progress and real time actions performed on them including directing those calls to alternate destinations based on rules and or other stimuli. The SIP API also provides call progress monitoring capabilities and for reporting status of such calls to interested applications. The SIP API also provides for call control from the user interface.

According to the embodiment illustrated the application modules include a collaboration module an interaction center module a mobility module an interworking services module .

The collaboration module allows for creation modification or deletion of a collaboration session for a group of users. The collaboration module may further allow for invoking a voice conference from any client. In addition the collaboration module can launch a multi media conferencing package such as the WebEx package. It is noted that the multi media conferencing can be handled by other products.

The interaction center provides a telephony interface for both subscribers and guests. Subscriber access functions include calendar access and voicemail and e mail access. The calendar access allows the subscriber to accept decline or modify appointments as well as block out particular times. The voicemail and e mail access allows the subscriber to access and sort messages.

Similarly the guest access feature allows the guest access to voicemail for leaving messages and calendar functions for scheduling canceling and modifying appointments with subscribers. Further the guest access feature allows a guest user to access specific data meant for them e.g. receiving e mail and fax back etc.

The mobility module provides for message forwarding and one number access across media and message morphing across media for the subscriber. Further various applications can send notification messages to a variety of destinations such as e mails instant messages pagers and the like. In addition the subscriber can set rules that the mobility module uses to define media handling such as e mail voice and instant messaging handling. Such rules specify data and associated actions. For example a rule could be defined to say If I m traveling and I get a voicemail or e mail marked Urgent then page me. 

As noted above an exemplary server environment capable of being adapted for use in a system according to embodiments of the present invention is the OpenScape system available from Siemens Communications Inc. Such an environment can be implemented for example in conjunction with Windows Server Microsoft Office Live Communications Server Microsoft Active Directory Microsoft Exchange and SQL Server.

An exemplary browser type graphical user interface for such a system is shown in . In particular interface shows a personal portal for such a system. In the embodiment illustrated the personal portal includes call status indicia contacts list or address book collaboration groups a calendar various user or contact lists such as allowed to contact me list and presence contacts buddies and an inbox . The interface may be used for example to make a one number call in accordance with embodiments of the present invention by selecting an e mail address or other indicia from a contact list or other window in a manner similar to that discussed above.

In addition one aspect of the present invention relates to a viral presence adoption model in which various of the user s presence contact lists such as allowed to contact me list and presence contacts may be populated by use of existing address books such as an Outlook address book .

Operation of an embodiment of the present invention is illustrated schematically by way of example in . Shown are user user and user . Each user has a messaging address book or contact list respectively. As noted above the address book is representative of for example an Outlook address book.

User s address book includes entries for User User User . User s address book includes entries for User User User User . User s address book includes entries for User User User and User .

According to some embodiments of the present invention users may populate their allowed to contact me contact lists with the contents of their Outlook address books. Thus user s allowed list includes the users and user s allowed list includes users and and user s allowed list includes user and .

According to other embodiments the allowed contact list may be populated with those parties who list the user in their address books. Thus user s allowed list includes user user s includes user and use and user s allowed list includes user .

According to some embodiments of the present invention users may populate their contact or watch lists with the contents of their Outlook address books. Thus user s watch list includes the users and user s watch list includes users and and user s watch list includes user and .

According to other embodiments the contact list may be populated with those parties who list the user in their address books. Thus user s watch list includes user user s includes user and use and user s watch list includes user .

As noted above aspects of the present invention relate to a viral adoption of contacts for presence contact lists. This is illustrated more particularly by way of example with reference to .

In particular shown in are a user a user and a user as well as ReachMe registry service . User and User are current subscribers and have buddy presence contact allowed to call and address lists. User is not currently a subscriber but may elect to subscribe as shown at . For example the user may subscribe in response to the e mail invitation discussed above.

At and the ReachMe service may check to see if the User is on any of the existing subscribers contact address or allowed to call lists. This may take the form of a communication with the remote user devices or simply accessing one or more databases that are local to the ReachMe registry .

At User indicates that User is not on any of its lists. At User responds that User is on at least one of its lists. Alternatively as noted above the ReachMe service could make this determination itself by accessing one or more databases. In any case since it has been determined that the User is on one of User s lists such as the address book the buddy list or the allowed to call me list User is added to User s lists at . For example the User can be added to the User s buddy allowed to call me or address book. In some embodiments the User can specify which any or all.

It is noted that depending on the embodiment the address books and contact lists can be stored either locally at each client or user or on a network level or in some combination. Thus the figures are exemplary only.

Embodiments of the present invention also allow accessing a calendar and displaying it between the ReachMe registry subscribers. That is in some embodiments exchanging or populating the address books and lists also includes permitting access to parties respective calendars. Thus for example as shown at a graphical interface can be used to display in a split window the calendars and of respective users. Advantageously by providing a peer to peer service provider based service the ReachMe service allows for calendar sharing and other information sharing regardless of whether the individual parties are on the same calendar or other system.

As can be appreciated by allowing the population of a presence contact list with entries from one or more parties Outlook contact lists the resulting contact list could be relatively cumbersome. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention allow for efficiently organizing large numbers of contacts based on particular fields in each address book entry.

For example shown in is an exemplary address book entry. The address book entry is representative of for example an Outlook address book entry.

As shown entries include full name last name first name job title company business address business home mobile and fax telephone numbers and e mail.

As will be explained in greater detail below the company can be defined in terms of a complete company name or other company identifier such as a stock symbol. In some embodiments the company name or identifier may be derived from the e mail address domain name. The entry contacts can then be organized according to the stock symbol or domain name. Alternatively the entries could be organized by one of the geographic markers such as city state zip or postal code or area or calling code.

For example shown in is an exemplary user interface for displaying contacts. At the entries are grouped in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Shown are various fields that can be used to organize the contacts. For example fields include name company stock symbol country city zip code telephone code area code and whether the entry was added manually or automatically .

As shown at the entries are sorted according to stock symbol. The stock symbol may be stored by the user or may be accessed by a database engine not shown after a company name is provided. Thus User and User are associated with SIE whereas User and User are associated with ATT.

As shown at the contacts are sorted according to country DE US . As shown at the entries are sorted according to city Munich Santa Clara .

In some embodiments the user is able to take automatic action on particular entries based on sorting. For example the user could blacklist predetermined automatically added entries. Further in some embodiments the contacts can be sorted according to whether they are on the user s contact list on other users contact lists or on both.

Embodiments of the present invention thus allow users to select a method of sorting. Thus for example an exemplary graphical user interface is shown in . The GUI includes a drop down or other menu for selecting the particular sorting criteria as well as a contacts list display in which the sorted contacts may be displayed.

Similarly illustrates a GUI that shows a do not call list that can be sorted by the chosen criteria . That is the do not call list may be sorted and specified according to the sorting criteria . It is noted that the configuration and criteria shown in are exemplary only.

Turning now to a flowchart illustrating operation of embodiment of the present invention is shown. The particular arrangement of elements in the flowchart is not meant to imply a fixed order to the elements embodiments can be practiced in any order that is practicable.

In a process step a user can download contacts into one of his contact lists in a manner similar to that discussed above. In a process step the user can choose to sort contacts for example by opening a window such as shown in and . In a process step the user can choose sorting criteria. Finally in a step the list can be sorted. It is noted that depending on the environment a variety of lists can be sorted in this fashion such as the user s presence contact list and the allowed to contact list.

Now referring to a representative block diagram of an exemplary computer or processing device suitable for use as a user device or a server according to embodiments of the present invention is shown. In particular the computer may be a device suitable for accessing or implementing a service or clients in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. In some embodiments the computer may include or operate a web browser or multimedia messaging system or clients. The computer may be embodied as a single device or computer a networked set or group of devices or computers a workstation mainframe or host computer etc. In some embodiments the computer may implement one or more elements of the methods disclosed herein.

The computer may include a processor microchip central processing unit or computer that is in communication with or otherwise uses or includes one or more communication ports or network interfaces for communicating with user devices and or other devices. The communication ports may include such things as telephone adapters local area network adapters wireless communication devices Bluetooth technology etc. The computer also may include an internal clock element to maintain an accurate time and date for the computer create time stamps for communications received or sent by the computer etc.

If desired the computer may include one or more output devices such as a printer infrared or other transmitter antenna display screen or monitor text to speech converter speaker etc. as well as one or more input devices such as a bar code reader or other optical scanner infrared or other receiver antenna magnetic stripe reader image scanner roller ball touch pad joystick touch screen computer keyboard computer mouse microphone etc. In some embodiments the computer may include a telephony interface including for example a microphone and speaker .

In addition to the above the computer may include a memory or data storage device to store information software databases documents communications device drivers etc. The memory or data storage device may be implemented as an appropriate combination of magnetic optical and or semiconductor memory and may include for example Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM a tape drive flash memory a floppy disk drive a Zip disk drive an optical disk such as a compact disc or DVD and or a hard disk. Thus the storage device may include various combinations of moveable and fixed storage. The computer also may include memory such as ROM and RAM .

The processor and the data storage device in the computer each may be for example i located entirely within a single computer or other computing device or ii connected to each other by a remote communication medium such as a serial port cable telephone line or radio frequency transceiver. In one embodiment the computer may be implemented as one or more computers that are connected to a remote server computer as will be explained in greater detail below.

A conventional personal computer or workstation with sufficient memory and processing capability may be used as the computer . The computer may be capable of high volume transaction processing performing a significant number of mathematical calculations in processing communications and database searches. A Pentium microprocessor such as the Pentium III or IV microprocessor manufactured by Intel Corporation may be used for the processor . Other suitable processors may be available from various manufacturers such as AMD or Sun Microsystems Inc. The processor also may be embodied as one or more microprocessors computers computer systems etc.

Software may be resident and operating or operational on the computer . The software may be stored on the data storage device and may include one or more control programs . The control programs may implement the various services and clients described herein. The data storage device may further store user data such as user lists registries etc.

It is noted that while illustrated as software stored in storage medium the various control modules in accordance with embodiments of the present invention may also include related firmware and or hardware components. Thus the figure is exemplary only.

The control program may control the processor . The processor may perform instructions of the control program and thereby operate in accordance with the methods described in detail herein. The control programs may be stored in a compressed uncompiled and or encrypted format. The control programs furthermore include program elements that may be necessary such as an operating system a database management system and device drivers for allowing the processor to interface with peripheral devices databases etc. Appropriate program elements are known to those skilled in the art and need not be described in detail herein.

According to some embodiments the instructions of the control program may be read into a main memory from another computer readable medium such as from the ROM to the RAM . Execution of sequences of the instructions in the control program causes the processor to perform the process elements described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation of some or all of the methods described herein. Thus embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software.

The processor communication ports clock output device input device data storage device ROM and RAM may communicate or be connected directly or indirectly in a variety of ways. For example the processor communication ports clock output device input device data storage device ROM and RAM may be connected via a bus .

While specific implementations and hardware software configurations for the computer have been illustrated it should be noted that other implementations and hardware configurations are possible and that no specific implementation or hardware software configuration is needed. Thus not all of the components illustrated in may be needed for the computer implementing the methods disclosed herein.

Some embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in or in conjunction with a telephone such as a wireless or cellular telephone or PocketPC. An exemplary cellular telephone including capabilities in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention is shown in . In some embodiments the cellular telephone may implement one or more elements of the methods disclosed herein. As shown the cellular telephone includes control logic and cellular transceiver . The cellular transceiver allows communication over a cellular telephone network such as a GSM or GPRS based cellular telephone network. The control logic generally controls operation of the cellular telephone and in some embodiments implements various of the clients discussed above.

The control logic interfaces to a memory for storing among other things user data such as contact or address lists. The control logic also interfaces to a user interface s . The user interface s can include a keypad speaker microphone and display . The keypad may include one or more hard keys and may be implemented in whole or in part as a cursor pointing device in association with one or more virtual keys on the display . In general a user may make use of the keypad and display to enter contact information and may speak into the microphone to provide the audio input s . It is noted that other interfaces such as voice activated interfaces may be provided. Thus the figure is exemplary only. In addition a Bluetooth interface may be provided.

While specific implementations and hardware software configurations for the mobile computing device have been illustrated it should be noted that other implementations and hardware configurations are possible and that no specific implementation or hardware software configuration is needed. Thus not all of the components illustrated may be needed for the mobile computing device implementing the methods disclosed herein.

As used herein whether in the above description or the following claims the terms comprising including carrying having containing involving and the like are to be understood to be open ended that is to mean including but not limited to. Only the transitional phrases consisting of and consisting essentially of respectively shall be considered exclusionary transitional phrases as set forth with respect to claims in the United States Patent Office Manual of Patent Examining Procedures.

Any use of ordinal terms such as first second third etc. in the claims to modify a claim element does not by itself connote any priority precedence or order of one claim element over another or the temporal order in which acts of a method are performed. Rather unless specifically stated otherwise such ordinal terms are used merely as labels to distinguish one claim element having a certain name from another element having a same name but for use of the ordinal term .

The above described embodiments are intended to illustrate the principles of the invention but not to limit the scope of the invention. Various other embodiments and modifications to these preferred embodiments may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the present invention.

