---

title: Automatically targeting and filtering shared network resources
abstract: Embodiments are provided to automatically target shared resources in a computer network which are pertinent to a query for information from a client and/or a server through the use of a shared resources portal. In one embodiment, a query is received in the shared resources portal from a requestor. The portal may then identify a target resource server to which to route the query by filtering the information provided by a number of shared resource servers in the network against information regarding an organizational role performed by the requester. The identified target resource server may be one which provides information pertinent to the organizational role performed by the requester. The query is then processed in the identified target resource server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07716365&OS=07716365&RS=07716365
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07716365
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070529
---
Many business organizations have a network infrastructure to allow access to shared resources by many clients having multiple roles within an organization. For example shared resources within a business organization may be utilized by a number of different departments such as legal engineering sales human resources and the like. These resources typically include data and services which may be utilized for conducting research or creating documents. As the resources provided by many business organizations may be quite substantial an organization may further provide clients access to a centralized intelligent directory for locating relevant resources or other resources of interest. The intelligent directory may be a high speed database which is connected to the various resources within an organization. The intelligent directory may then be manually accessed via a web based query interface by a client to search for desired information. Due to limitations in conventional directory technologies clients utilizing a present day directory may be required to peruse through a number of listings including documents which are irrelevant to the client s role within the organization or which the client is not permitted to access making the searching for and accessing of shared resources very time consuming and tedious. For example with conventional directory technologies clients do not know the various permissions which may be associated with documents they are searching for nor are they given a starting point for accessing relevant documents which may be pertinent to the client s role within an organization. It is with respect to these considerations and others that the various embodiments of the present invention have been made.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments are provided to automatically target shared resources in a computer network which are pertinent to a query for information from a client and or a server through the use of a shared resources portal. In one embodiment a query is received in the shared resources portal from a requestor. The portal may then identify a target resource server to which to route the query by filtering the information provided by a number of shared resource servers in the network against information regarding an organizational role performed by the requestor. The identified target resource server may be one which provides information pertinent to the organizational role performed by the requestor. The query is then processed in the identified target resource server.

These and other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are illustrative only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Embodiments are provided to automatically target shared resources in a computer network which are pertinent to a query for information from a client and or a server through the use of a shared resources portal. In one embodiment a query is received in the shared resources portal from a requester. The portal may then identify a target resource server to which to route the query by filtering the information provided by a number of shared resource servers in the network against information regarding an organizational role performed by the requestor. The identified target resource server may be one which provides information pertinent to the organizational role performed by the requestor within a business organization. The query is then processed in the identified target resource server.

Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements various illustrative embodiments will now be described. is a network architecture diagram of a computer network that is configured to automatically target shared resources. In one embodiment various components in the computer network may be configured using SHAREPOINT services technology developed by MICROSOFT CORPORATION of Redmond Wash. As is known to those skilled in the art SHAREPOINT services technology enables users to create maintain and present a collaborative environment to share information. Using the technology a user or organization can create a web site to provide and share information e.g. documents on a web server or web folder etc. for other users associated with the web site. For example users can use a number of document templates or fragments to prepare documents which are generated by members of a particular workgroup in a business organization. It should be understood that the embodiments described herein should not be construed as being limited to SHAREPOINT services technology and that other collaborative services technology from other developers and or manufacturers may also be utilized. The computer network and its components include functionality to communicate with other computing devices communication devices and or other systems and are not intended to be limited to the embodiments and examples described herein.

As shown in the computer network includes without limitation shared resource servers A B and C hereinafter collectively referred to as the shared resource servers a shared resources portal a home server and a client computer . In one embodiment the shared resources servers A B and C as well as the shared resources portal and the home server may be configured to utilize SHAREPOINT services technology to create a collaborative environment for sharing information with the client computer . In particular in accordance with one embodiment the shared resource servers and the home server may be configured to run the WINDOWS SHAREPOINT SERVICES application program and the shared resources portal may be configured to run the OFFICE SHAREPOINT SERVER application program both of which are from MICROSOFT CORPORATION of Redmond Wash. It should be appreciated however that web server application programs from other manufacturers may also be utilized to embody the various aspects of the technical features discussed herein.

The shared resource servers are in communication with the shared resources portal . In accordance with various embodiments the shared resource servers may be utilized to provide various resources in the network such as data which may be used in creating editing and maintaining documents on the client computer . In accordance with various embodiments each of the resources provided by the shared resource servers may utilized by different organizational roles within an organization. For example the shared resource server A may be utilized to store documents which are relevant to a legal department the shared resource sever B may be utilized to store documents which are relevant to an engineering department and the shared resource server C may be utilized to store documents which are relevant to a sales department.

The shared resource servers may include without limitation document templates A B and C hereinafter collectively referred to as the document templates server settings A B and C hereinafter collectively referred to as the server settings and document fragments A B and C hereinafter collectively referred to as the document fragments . In accordance with one embodiment the document templates may be utilized by clients in the network to provide a starting point in the creation of documents for use in an organization. For example a legal department within an organization may utilize document templates to assist in creating contracts and invoices. The server settings may be utilized by the shared resource servers in the network to store various settings such as email settings corporate retention policies and permissions as to which workgroups within an organization have access to certain documents. For example a server which stores financial information within a banking organization may have settings preventing stock traders from accessing sensitive corporate financial information used by investment bankers. As will be described in greater detail herein the server settings may be automatically propagated from the shared resource servers to the shared resources portal for targeting to one or more clients in a network. The document fragments may be repositories of reusable pieces of text for use in various documents e.g. legal boilerplate language used in contracts by clients in the network .

The shared resources portal is in communication with the shared resource servers the home server and or the client computer . The shared resources portal may include without limitation schemas and an application program . Each of the schemas may include a list of metadata and taxonomy tags which may be utilized by the shared resources portal to identify i.e. discover the resources provided by the shared resource servers . The metadata and taxonomy tags may include without limitation a unique identifier ID tag a Name tag a Description tag a Type a Category tag and associated Subcategory tags and a Uniform Resource Locator URL tag. It will be appreciated that the schemas may include other metadata and taxonomy tags to further define the resources or content provided by the shared resource servers . The application program may be a portal server application program utilized to implement various functions performed by the shared resources portal .

In accordance with various embodiments the shared resources portal may be configured to receive the query from the home server or the client computer i.e. the requestor identify a target resource server from among the shared resource servers to which to route the query by filtering the information provided by the shared resource servers against information regarding an organizational context or role performed by the requestor. The identified target resource server may be one which provides information pertinent to the organizational role performed by the requestor. The query is then processed in the identified target resource server. For example a document query from a client serving an engineering role in a business organization may be targeted to a resource server which stores and distributes engineering documents for processing. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the functionality of the shared resources portal may be implemented through the use of plug in modules and . In particular the plug in modules and may be utilized by the shared resources portal to adapt to different protocols used in communications by the shared resource servers . It will further be appreciated by those skilled in the art that communication between the shared resources portal and the shared resource servers the home server and the client computer may implemented through a set of Object Management Application Programming Interfaces OMAPIs . In particular the shared resources portal may be configured to automatically call these interfaces to expose lists of resources provided by the shared resource servers and to share these lists with either the home server or the client .

The home server is in communication with the shared resources portal and the client computer . In accordance with one embodiment the home server may be utilized as a requestor to forward queries from the client computer to the shared resources portal for processing. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the home server may be associated with the client computer to facilitate the forwarding of queries utilizing a number of methods including but not limited to via a user web interface on the client computer e.g. the user may associate a home webpage for communicating with the home server or via registry key settings or Group Policy. The home server may further include client data regarding a context or role associated with the client computer which may be sent to the shared resources portal along with the query . In one embodiment the client data may be compared to the metadata and taxonomy tags by the shared resources portal to determine a target resource server for a query. For example the home server may receive a query from the client computer and determine from the client data that the client computer is utilized in the legal department in a business organization. The client data may further include additional information such as the identity of the user of the client computer the types of legal documents the user typically works on the identify of other attorneys within the organization who the user typically works with etc. It should be understood that the computer network may include multiple home servers and multiple client computers. It will be appreciated that a single home server may be paired with multiple client computers performing a similar role within an organization. For example a home server may be associated with multiple client computers within the human resources department of a business organization.

The client computer is in communication with the home server and the shared resources portal and may include client application programs . As discussed above the client computer may be configured to forward queries generated from the client application programs to the shared resources portal through the home server . In an alternative embodiment the client computer may also be configured to forward queries directly to the shared resources portal . The client application programs may be utilized to create edit and maintain documents within an organization. The client application programs may comprise a suite of productivity application programs e.g. word processing and spreadsheet application programs such as the OFFICE suite of application programs from MICROSOFT CORPORATION of Redmond Wash. It should be appreciated however that productivity application programs from other manufacturers may also be utilized to embody the various aspects of the technical features discussed herein.

Referring now to the following discussion is intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which embodiments of the invention may be implemented. While the invention will be described in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with program modules that run on an operating system on a personal computer those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention may also be implemented in combination with other types of computer systems and program modules.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Referring now to an illustrative operating environment for embodiments of the invention will be described. As shown in the shared resources portal comprises a server computer which may include a general purpose desktop laptop handheld tablet or other type of computer capable of executing one or more application programs. The shared resources portal includes at least one central processing unit CPU a system memory including a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM and a system bus that couples the memory to the CPU . A basic input output system containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during startup is stored in the ROM .

The shared resources portal further includes a mass storage device for storing an operating system the schemas the application program and data . The mass storage device is connected to the CPU through a mass storage controller not shown connected to the bus . The mass storage device and its associated computer readable media provide non volatile storage for the shared resources portal . Although the description of computer readable media contained herein refers to a mass storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM drive it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed or utilized by the shared resources portal .

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the shared resources portal .

According to various embodiments of the invention the shared resources portal may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computers through a network such as a local network or a wide area network e.g. the Internet for example. The shared resources portal may connect to the network through a network interface unit connected to the bus . As shown in the network connects the shared resources portal to the home server and the shared resource servers .

It should be appreciated that the network interface unit may also be utilized to connect to other types of networks and remote computing systems. The shared resources portal may also include an input output controller for receiving and processing input from a number of input types including a keyboard mouse pen stylus finger and or other means. Similarly an input output controller may provide output to a display a printer or other type of output device. Additionally a touch screen can serve as an input and an output mechanism.

As mentioned briefly above a number of program modules and data files may be stored in the mass storage device and RAM of the shared resources portal including an operating system suitable for controlling the operation of a networked personal computer such as the WINDOWS operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION of Redmond Wash. The mass storage device and RAM may also store one or more program modules. In particular the mass storage device and the RAM may store the schemas and the application program .

The routine begins at operation where the shared resources portal receives a shared resources query from a requester which may be either the home server or the client computer . The query may include a request for a request for a document template a document fragment or other data.

From operation the routine continues to operation where the shared resources portal determines whether it is capable of answering the query for a shared resource. In particular the shared resources portal may request the client data from the home server and determine a role associated with the requester based on the client data . The shared resources portal may then determine if the data stored in the shared resources portal is capable of answering the query. For example if the query includes a request for a document template used by the legal department in an organization the shared resources portal may determine if the data includes a list of legal document templates.

If at operation it is determined that the shared resources portal is capable of answering the query then the routine continues to operation where the shared resources portal identifies itself as the target resource server. The shared resources portal may then process the query utilizing the data e.g. by returning a directory list of legal document templates to the home server or the client computer . From operation the routine then ends.

If at operation it is determined that the shared resources portal is not capable of answering the query then the routine branches to operation where the shared resources portal identifies a target resource server from among the shared resource servers based on the context or role associated with the requestor. In particular the shared resources portal may compare the client data which may include the organizational role associated with the requester to the metadata and taxonomy tags in the schemas to determine a shared resource server for processing the query. For example if the shared resources portal determines that the requestor of a query for document fragments is associated with an engineering department within an organization the shared resources portal may then search the metadata and taxonomy tags to identify a shared resource server which includes a fragment repository for storing engineering document fragments.

From operation the routine continues to operation where the shared resources portal determines whether the requestor is permitted to access data for answering the query on the identified target server as will be described in greater detail below with respect to .

Turning now to a flow diagram illustrating a routine for determining whether a requestor is permitted to access data for answering the query on the target server identified at operation in will now be described under an embodiment. From operation the routine begins at operation where the shared resources portal requests settings associated with the identified target resource server. For example the shared resources portal may identify the shared resource server A as the target resource server and subsequently request the server settings A. As discussed above with respect to the server settings include various settings such as email settings corporate retention policies and permissions as to which workgroups within an organization may have access to certain documents.

From operation the routine continues to operation where the shared resources portal receives the requested target resource server settings for reviewing any permissions contained therein. In particular the target resource server may be configured to automatically propagate the sever settings upon a request by the shared resources portal .

From operation the routine continues to operation where the shared resources portal determines whether to propagate the query from the requester to the target resource server based on the received settings. In particular the shared resources portal may determine based on the settings whether the requester is permitted to access data which may be referenced in the query. For example the shared resources portal may have identified a server containing financial services information as the target server for a query from a requestor who is a stock trader but if the target server settings prevent stock traders from accessing corporate financial information then such a query would not be propagated to the identified target server.

Thus if at operation it is determined that the server settings prevent a query from being propagated to the identified target server the shared resources portal may deny the query and the routine then ends. However if at operation it is determined that the server settings permit a query to be propagated to the identified target server then the routine returns to operation of the routine of .

Returning now to the routine continues from operation to operation where the shared services portal propagates the query to the identified target resource server. Once the query is received by the target resource server a response to the query is then communicated back to the shared services portal for distribution to either the home server or the client computer . In accordance with various embodiments the response to the query may include a listing of document templates document fragments or other data which are relevant to a role performed by a user of the client computer in a business organization for example. From operation the routine then ends.

Although the invention has been described in connection with various illustrative embodiments those of ordinary skill in the art will understand that many modifications can be made thereto within the scope of the claims that follow. Accordingly it is not intended that the scope of the invention in any way be limited by the above description but instead be determined entirely by reference to the claims that follow.

