---

title: Methods and systems for employing dynamic risk-based scheduling to optimize and integrate production with a supply chain
abstract: A production and inventory control for a manufacturing facility is provided that facilitates and coordinates improved planning and execution of such facility in a supply chain with a focus on providing an improved and robust planning, production and inventory control, even in the presence of uncertainty. This may include Optimal Planning that can balance the need for low inventory, low cost (i.e., high utilization of equipment and labor), and efficient on-time delivery. The result of such planning is not a schedule per se but a set of parameters that form a dynamic policy that generates an evolving schedule as conditions (demand, production) materialize. An Optimal Execution applies the dynamic policy resulting in a manufacturing system that is robust enough to accommodate moderate changes in demand and/or capacity without the need to reschedule. Optimal Execution may also involve a “Capacity Trigger” that detects when the assumptions regarding demand and capacity used to determine the dynamic policy are no longer valid. The Capacity Trigger also may provide a Trigger Signal to the planner indicating the need for either more or less capacity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07941236&OS=07941236&RS=07941236
owner: Factory Physics, Inc.
number: 07941236
owner_city: Bryan
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070706
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 819 012 entitled METHOD FOR EMPLOYING DYNAMIC RISK BASED SCHEDULING TO OPTIMIZE AND INTEGRATE PRODUCTION WITH A SUPPLY CHAIN filed Jul. 7 2006 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The invention relates generally to production and inventory control of a manufacturing facility or network of facilities and more specifically to a system and method that facilitates and coordinates improved planning and execution of such facilities in a supply chain with a focus on an improved planning production and inventory control that is robust and effective even in the presence of uncertainty.

In recent years companies have begun to appreciate the severity of the risks facing an entire corporation by not addressing potential supply chain problems. Indeed more than two thirds of the companies surveyed by Accenture in 2006 said it had experienced a supply chain disruption from which it took more than one week to recover. Furthermore the study revealed that 73 of the executives surveyed had a major disruption in the past 5 years. Of those 36 took more than one month to recover. One reason for this maybe that supply chains are 1 not designed with risk in mind and 2 are not robust enough to operate under conditions significantly different from those for which they are planned.

For many years people have sought to develop processes that will generate optimal plans and schedules for managing production systems and their supply chains. The goal has been to reduce inventory improve customer service and to reduce cost by increasing the utilization of expensive equipment and labor. Unfortunately these processes have not explicitly considered risk and have ignored key facts regarding the systems they try to control.

The first attempts in this area date back to the 1960 s beginning with Material Requirements Planning MRP that provided material plans with no consideration of capacity. This evolved into Manufacturing Resources Planning MRP II which provided some capacity checking modules around the basic MRP functionality and eventually into the Enterprise Resources Planning ERP systems used today.

In the remainder of this application any production planning system will be referred to as an ERP system whether it carries that moniker or not. These can include so called legacy systems that may employ only basic functionality such as MRP. Likewise any system that is used to directly control execution whether it is part of an ERP system or not will be referred to as a Manufacturing Execution System MES .

Interestingly virtually all ERP systems today including the high end offerings of SAP and Oracle provide MRP functions and continue to have the same basic MRP calculations as the core of their production planning offering. Not surprisingly a 2006 survey showed that users gave low marks to these high end ERP SCM systems for performance in distribution and manufacturing averaging 2.5 and 2.6 respectively out of 4.0 . In a survey performed by Microsoft of mid sized companies median revenue of 21 million average around 100 million 27 of 229 companies found their ERP SCM system to be ineffective and 46 found it to be only somewhat effective. Only 3 found the system used to be very effective. 

There are two basic problems with these systems 1 order sizing is done without consideration of capacity and 2 planning lead times are assumed to be attributes of the part see the book Hopp and Spearman McGraw Hill New York 2000 Chapter 5 for a complete discussion . The first issue results in conservative i.e. large order sizes which increase inventory and reduce responsiveness. The second issue is similar. Because the planning lead time does not depend on current work in process WIP levels and because being late resulting in poor customer service is worse than being early resulting in extra inventory most systems employ pessimistic i.e. long lead times. The result again is more inventory and less responsiveness and is especially aggravated when the bill of material is deep.

Efforts to address these problems have gone on for many years but the basic problems remain today. Consequently most companies do not run their plants using the output of their ERP SCM systems but instead massage the output using ad hoc spreadsheets.

Obviously with this kind of work around there exists an opportunity to sell more sophisticated software and for some time now there have been numerous offerings known variously as Advanced Planning and Scheduling or Advanced Planning and Optimization. These APO applications typically work between the Enterprise Resources Planning ERP system and the Manufacturing Execution System MES . Although a typical ERP system contains many functions other functions this application focuses on those concerned with supply chain management such as demand forecasting customer order tracking supplier management inventory tracking capacity planning master production scheduling material requirements planning and the management of product data including bills of material and routings. The MES is where the plans from the ERP are realized within the manufacturing facility and typically includes functions such as work in process WIP tracking shop order dispatching product costing and equipment tracking.

The APO is a more recent development that attempts to remedy some of the aforementioned problems found in ERP. However APO s are in the form of some type of deterministic simulation of the process that assume the demand inventory work in process run rates setup times etc. are all known which then seek to generate a schedule that is optimal under some specified criteria. presents an exemplary supply chain that includes a fabrication operation whose output is used in an assembly operation as well as a distribution function. presents a computational APO application operating with an ERP system and an MES. illustrates the interrelations between these computational functions.

One of the earliest APO s to appear that was moderately successful is called Factory Planner and has been offered by i2 Corporation under various names e.g. Rhythm since 1988. Offerings by Oracle and SAP in relatively recent products are different only in style and perhaps in the level of integration with other data.

Moreover there are at least three problems that prevent the use of deterministic simulation as being an effective supply chain planning and scheduling tool 

1. The supply chain and plant have inherent randomness that do not allow for the complete specification of a time for each shop order at each process center with given labor component. Such detailed schedules are often quickly out of date because of the intrinsic variability in the system. Moreover they do not manage risk which involves random events that may or may not happen. In the past this has been addressed using ever more detailed models requiring ever more computer power. This misses the point. Variability and risk are facts of life and are the result of not only process variation something that one attempts to control but also unforeseen events and variability in demand things that cannot be controlled . At any rate the result is the same regardless of the variability source. Detailed scheduling can only provide a very short term solution and in practice the solution often becomes invalid between the time it is generated and the time that the schedule is distributed and reviewed as part of production planning meetings.

2. The detailed scheduling system must be re run often because of the short term nature of the solution. This becomes cumbersome and time consuming. Moreover without a method for determining whether a significant change has occurred oftentimes the schedule is regenerated in response to random noise e.g. a temporary lull in demand which is then fed back into the system. Unfortunately feeding back random noise results in an increase in the variability in the system being controlled. Because of these problems many companies have turned off their Advanced Planning and Scheduling systems after spending a great deal of money to install them.

3. It is essentially impossible to find an optimal schedule. The problems addressed are mathematically characterized as NP hard which means that no algorithm exists that works in polynomial time to solve scheduling problems. The practical result is that for realistic problems faced in modern factories and in the supply chain there is not enough time to find an optimal schedule regardless of the speed of the computer. Consequently heuristics must be applied to generate a hopefully near optimal schedule. The effectiveness of these heuristics is typically unknown for a broad range of applications.

These problems often result in a great deal of computer power being used to create a detailed schedule for a single instance that will never happen i.e. the random sample path will never be what is predicted a priori and that becomes obsolete as soon as something unanticipated occurs.

The most advanced systems today offer two methods of planning for manufacturing supply chains 1 what if analysis using a deterministic simulation of the supply chain and 2 optimization of a set of penalties again using a deterministic simulation associated with inventory on time delivery setups and wasted capacity. There are also some crude methods for setting safety stock levels.

In addition to the fundamental problems listed above there are at two practical problems with this approach 1 what if analysis is tedious and 2 optimizing a penalty function is not intuitive.

The tediousness of what if analysis comes from all the detail that must be considered. shows the output of a typical APO prior art application for the scheduled production on six machines in one factory along with projected inventory plot of one of the items produced discussed more below. The planner can move shop orders in the schedule and drill down on other items to view inventory projections. While this level of integration is impressive it is not particularly useful especially when there are hundreds of machines not to mention labor to consider along with thousands of individual items each with their own demand.

Likewise the use of penalties to determine an optimal schedule is not intuitive. What should the penalty be for carrying additional inventory What is the cost of a late order What is the savings generated by reducing the number of setups particularly if there is no reduction in head count What is the cost of having idle machines 

Referring to a simplified supply chain includes Fabrication Assembly and Distribution . A plurality of raw materials come from a supplier and are maintained in a Stock until released into the product Flow that may be embodied by one or more production processes. Once completed the product is either shipped immediately if the due date is passed or is kept in a Stock until the ship date for make to order items or until a demand occurs for make to stock items . In this typical scenario some parts are shipped to an Assembly operation and others directly to a Distribution center . In this example the Assembly process brings together a plurality of parts from suppliers and fabrication performs an assembly operation as well as other processes and then either maintains an inventory in a Stock or ships to a Distribution site. The Distribution center comprising a Stock and a kitting and shipping process whereby the parts are shipped to satisfy Market Demand .

Accordingly there is a need for an improved supply chain planning and scheduling tool that avoids one or more of the above drawbacks and limitations of the prior art.

The invention provides a systems and methods to generate effective schedules that minimize required inventory while providing acceptable on time delivery at the lowest possible cost i.e. highest utilization of machines and labor . The systems and methods of the invention consider inherent randomness to be robust enough to accommodate moderate changes in demand and capacity without the need to reschedule.

The invention may be implemented in a number of ways. According to one aspect of the invention a computer implemented method for tracking production in a given product flow against demand associated with a plurality of orders in the flow is provided. The method includes the steps of determining a probability of shortage for the demand associated with at least one of the plurality of orders determining expected inventory days for at least one of the plurality of orders in the flow and generating output showing the probability of shortage associated with at least one of the plurality of orders and the expected inventory days for the at least one of the plurality of orders.

In another aspect a computer implemented method to signal insufficient or overabundance of capacity for a given flow operating under a given demand is provided. The method includes the steps of determining the total expected inventory days and overall probability of shortage for a specified trigger detecting when insufficient capacity is present and generating a first electronic signal based on the specified trigger detecting when an overabundance of capacity is present and generating a second electronic signal based on the specified trigger and altering capacity in a production process according to the first or second electronic signal.

In another aspect a system for tracking production in a given product flow against demand associated with a plurality of orders in the flow is provided. The system includes means for determining a probability distribution of finish times for all orders in the flow means for determining a probability distribution of associated demand time for at least one of the plurality of orders in the flow means for determining the probability of shortage for the at least one associated demand based at least in part on both probability distributions and means for displaying a graph showing the overall probability of shortage for the at least one associated demand versus a specified parameter.

In yet another aspect a computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having readable program code embodied in the medium is provided. The computer program product includes at least one component to cause or perform execution of the following steps determining a probability of shortage for the demand associated with each of the plurality of orders determining expected inventory days for each of the plurality of orders in the flow and generating output showing the probability of shortage associated with at least one of the plurality of orders and the expected inventory days for the at least one of the plurality of orders.

In an additional aspect a system for applying a dynamic policy to a production control system is provided. The system includes a dynamic risk based scheduling DRS system interoperably communicable with at least one of an enterprise resources planning ERP system a manufacturing execution system MES and a generic manufacturing data base wherein the DRS system includes a optimal planning module that generates a dynamic policy comprising parameters for balancing inventory levels utilization of equipment and labor and on time delivery and the parameters used for generating an evolving schedule as changes in demand and production capacity arise and an execution module that applies the dynamic policy to accommodate changes in demand or capacity without rescheduling.

Additional features advantages and embodiments of the invention may be set forth or apparent from consideration of the following detailed description drawings and claims. Moreover it is to be understood that both the foregoing summary of the invention and the following detailed description are exemplary and intended to provide further explanation without limiting the scope of the invention as claimed.

The embodiments of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments and examples that are described and or illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale and features of one embodiment may be employed with other embodiments as the skilled artisan would recognize even if not explicitly stated herein. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques may be omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the invention may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the examples and embodiments herein should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention which is defined solely by the appended claims and applicable law. Moreover it is noted that like reference numerals represent similar parts throughout the several views of the drawings.

It is understood that the invention is not limited to the particular methodology protocols devices apparatus materials applications etc. described herein as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the invention. It must be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Preferred methods devices and materials are described although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the invention.

ERP parameters for optimization may include but are not limited to available machine and labor capacity order quantities maximum WIP levels safety stocks and planning lead times. In accordance with this inventive method the optimal dynamic policy is determined that can respond to moderate changes in demand and capacity without the need to reschedule.

In one embodiment a method seeks to determine a dynamic policy that minimizes total inventory in a Flow Stock combination i.e. both WIP and finished stocks subject to an established constraint for on time delivery as well as constraints on capacity and the order quantities e.g. minimum maximum and incremental constraints . In another embodiment in addition to the above considerations certain out of pocket expenses are considered that are associated with a setup or changeover from one product to another .

Examples of out of pocket costs include material lost during a changeover and destruction of certain jigs and fixtures needed to facilitate the changeover etc. Since the principles of the invention seek to provide an optimal policy for a given set of machine and labor capacities time used by these resources is not considered an out of pocket expense. In an additional embodiment in addition to all of the above considerations raw material inventory carrying cost is included. Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is possible to include more and more elements of the supply chain until they are all considered if desired.

The invention also provides a system and a computer program implementing the described methods herein as well as output via a computer screen file or a printer.

Other aspects of the invention provide for optimal execution using the aforementioned dynamic policy. These aspects include but are not limited to one or more of the following 

These techniques and procedures are used to 1 execute to an optimal plan so long as the assumptions for the plan are suitably accurate and 2 to detect conditions when the assumptions are no longer suitably accurate to warrant continuation in the plan.

The invention also provides a system and a computer program implementing the optimal execution processes and procedures.

The CONWIP release mechanism allows new shop orders into the Flow whenever the Active work in process WIP level falls below a specified level . Other embodiments might convert the Active WIP level to some sort of standard units and maintain a CONWIP level accordingly. Shop orders may be processed in the flow at individual process centers . All of the WIP between the release point and the stock is called Active WIP . Make to stock demand is satisfied directly from Stock and is managed using an Inventory Policy e.g. a ROQ ROP policy . In this exemplary embodiment an order for Q parts is placed into the Virtual Queue whenever the inventory position reaches the re order point r . The Planned Lead Time includes time in the Virtual Queue in Active WIP and the planned time spent in Stock.

Server typically hosts three applications or layers. These are 1 the data layer comprising database components to access the data base 2 the logic layer comprising a high level language such as C C or Visual Basic to implement the optimal Planning and Execution algorithms described more below and 3 the web interface layer comprising software components that allow the overall Dynamic Risk based Scheduling functions to be accessed via a network . The network could be a local intranet wide area network or Internet. The connectivity may be accomplished by many different techniques including wired or wireless techniques commonly known in the art.

An exemplary embodiment of the invention may include XML and Web Services to provide direct access by the DRS system to data stored in the ERP system and or the Manufacturing Execution System MES via an application programming interface over the network . Networks and could also be a common network . A planner e.g. a person using the DRS system accesses the DRS system via a graphical user interface GUI operating over the network . The planner typically uses the same GUI to implement the dynamic policy generated by the DRS in the ERP system . The ERP system typically communicates with the MES to provide direct controls to the manufacturing facility .

With the Planning Module the planner is now enabled to perform a periodic e.g. monthly optimization that feeds the results into what becomes an improved planning and execution system . This eliminates any need to perform a detailed schedule by replacing such a detailed schedule with a dynamic policy operating along with the ERP MES framework and within a CONWIP generalized pull production environment. The dynamic policy comprises a set of optimized ERP parameters that operate with traditional MRP i.e. time phased re order points to generate both make to order and make to stock demands for all levels in the bill of material. As a result one difference between traditional MRP and the new principles provided by the DRS system is that the shop orders are not released into production via a schedule per traditional MRP but rather are now pulled in according to the CONWIP protocol according to the principles of the invention. This prevents the inevitable WIP explosions that are experienced by most MRP systems while maintaining the ERP planning and execution hierarchy.

The Execution Module may be utilized via the GUI . Although the Execution Module functions as though it were embodied in both the ERP System and the MES as is depicted here it may be a logical component of the DRS itself and typically resides on the DRS server . Thus the ERP system differs from the original ERP system in that the original Master Production Scheduling application has been replaced by an Improved MPS that is provided by the Execution Module . The enhanced MES has replaced the traditional WIP tracking and Dispatching components such as MES with a CONWIP Release function a Demand to Production Tracking function and a Capacity Trigger function that are supplied as part of the Execution Module . The planner may use the GUI described more below to interact with both the Planning Module and the Execution Module in order to set parameters for these functions to review the output and finally to implement the dynamic policy.

Inputs to the enhanced MES functions come from sensors and scanners on the shop floor or from direct data entry. Outputs go to shop floor monitors or may be printed out for manual distribution. The advantages of the system and methods of the invention include periodic optimization of the parameters used for planning and real time execution of a dynamic schedule as opposed to periodic regeneration of a fixed schedule commonly used by prior art systems.

Continuing now with at step before or at the start of each planning period e.g. monthly or quarterly the dynamic policy may be optimized step . This optimization includes but is not limited to setting capacity levels for machines and labor ROP s ROQ s PLT s for parts and CONWIP levels for flows. After acquiring a good set of dynamic policy parameter s the system executes autonomously using the Dynamic Policy step and CONWIP Release step until either 1 the end of the planning period is reached or 2 the occurrence of a capacity trigger. If capacity is short a signal to add capacity is generated step . If demand is less than available capacity for a long enough time the Virtual Queue will either empty or become very low. At step either of these conditions empty or very low Virtual Queue is an indicator that capacity is over and a signal i.e. an electronically generated signal to reduce capacity may be generated.

Capacity can be added in many ways including but not limited to working overtime adding a shift working on a weekend day or increasing head count. Capacity can be reduced by reversing these processes as in eliminating overtime taking away a shift ending work on weekends and decreasing headcount. The DRS processes and procedures seek to provide the right amount of capacity for the realized demand without excess cost e.g. overtime rates while maintaining on time delivery and minimal inventories. If capacity does not need to be adjusted the process continues until the end of the period.

The entire logic is repeated until no more Levels are present step . The output is typically a collection of one or more purchase orders and or one or more shop orders. The purchase orders may be sent to the suppliers on their SD.

Shop orders whose start date SD is before today go into the virtual queue VQ . These shop orders are released into the flow using the CONWIP technique in which the process considers all flows in the manufacturing facility . At step a check is made to see if the WIP in a given flow is below the established CONWIP. If so at step the next shop order in the Virtual Queue may be released. Shop orders in the Virtual Queue are typically arranged in earliest start date order. This is repeated for all flows step .

The Capacity Trigger typically works in two ways. One signal is that there is insufficient capacity and so more is needed. Exemplary techniques to add more capacity include but are not limited to adding overtime adding an extra shift or hours or adding more people to the labor force. For supply chains operating all available machines 24 hours per day 7 days per week no additional capacity is available and so the Capacity Trigger is an indication to reduce the amount of demand that is accepted by the facility. The other way the Capacity Trigger works is to indicate when there is an overabundance of capacity. In this case there is more capacity than needed to meet demand and so the utilization of the machines and labor will be lower than desired. Since the cost of labor and machines is now distributed over fewer parts unit costs rise. Consequently the Capacity Trigger indicates the need to reduce capacity at least labor usually in order to reduce costs.

In other embodiments as relating to step the probability of late shop orders may be computed continuously. Whenever the probability exceeds a set level additional capacity is needed and a signal is generated. Other somewhat simpler embodiments may also be employed such as whenever the amount of work in the Virtual Queue exceeds a given level a signal for more capacity is generated.

Note that the way work is generated for the Virtual Queue both by the receipt of an outside order such as and via consumption of stock and the employment of an inventory policy such as there is a limit to how far the flow can progress ahead of demand. If there are no new outside orders and if all the stocks are above their re order points there will be no demand in the Virtual Queue. Thus the simplest indicator of an overabundance of capacity is a Virtual Queue that is either empty or has very little work. The computation of Total Expected Inventory Days provides additional information indicating how much extra inventory might be caused by orders finishing early.

At step the optimal ROQs and ROP s for the given capacity levels both machine and labor may be computed. In some modes of the optimization the objective may include minimizing the sum of the WIP and finished stock inventory carrying cost plus any out of pocket costs subject to constraints on capacity percent on time delivery and particular constraints on the ROQs e.g. minimum maximum and ROQ increments .

At step an incidental output of process is the LaGrange multipliers for the capacity constraints. These numbers are useful in that they represent the amount of reduction in the total cost of the objective i.e. the total of WIP and stock carrying costs plus out of pocket costs per unit of additional capacity e.g. one extra hour of time available on a machine or for a worker . If this number is large compared to the cost of said capacity then one should increase the capacity. However if there is plenty of capacity then these numbers will be zero indicating that capacity can be reduced. At step the capacity should be adjusted until the LaGrange multipliers are reasonable compared to the cost of additional capacity. Once this is achieved at step the values of the ROQs and re order points can be applied to the dynamic policy.

Those skilled in the art will know that a necessary condition for a production plan to be optimal is that must be zero for any resource with abundant capacity and that there will be no extra slack capacity for any resource for which is greater than zero. This notion is applied in . is a flow diagram showing steps of an embodiment that may be used to determine an initial set of optimal re order quantities according to principles of the invention. Such an initial set may be subject to the aforementioned constraints on maximum minimum and ROQ increment as well as other practical considerations. Moreover it is likely that this set of ROQ values can be improved upon by applying a global search technique.

Continuing now with step data for demand and capacity from the ERP system are loaded. Such data may be stored in an ERP database e.g. database and may be obtained using a network e.g. network using an application programming interface. At step the LaGrange multipliers are first all set to zero. At step the ROQ values are computed and then adjusted according to ROQ size constraints i.e. minimum maximum increment . At step using these computed ROQ values the capacity slack values available capacity minus capacity used by the plan are computed for each resource. Those skilled in the art should realize that if the production plan resulting from all values set to zero is feasible i.e. it does not violate capacity constraints then the plan is also optimal. At step the feasibility of the solution is checked by considering all the slack values if all are positive then the solution is feasible . If the solution is not feasible at step the associated value of should be increased. However the solution may be super feasible meaning that there is more than enough capacity everywhere and the cost of the plan can be reduced while remaining feasible. At step a check is made if the solution is super feasible. An indication of this is having slack capacity when the associated is positive. If this is the case at step the value of the associated is reduced. Such iterations continue until there are practically no infeasibilities as well as no super feasibilities. Those skilled in the art will understand the significance of the term practically because it is virtually impossible to determine a set of values that result in the slack values of tight resources that are exactly zero. Consequently the process concludes when there are no infeasible constraints and when the super feasibilities are not significant. An example of such a check would be whenever the slack is less than one percent of that available. Alternatively the user might deem that there are no infeasible constraints and the super feasibilities are not significant.

Those skilled in the art will also realize the need for the correction to the values to become smaller with each iteration in order to force convergence. This can be easily accomplished reducing the amount by which the values are adjusted with each iteration.

Once the feasibility and super feasibility conditions are satisfied at step a global search technique to improve on the ROQ s and to determine an optimal set of ROP s or PLT s is performed. Typical global search techniques include the downhill simplex technique of Nelder and Meade as well as conjugate direction methods. The global search technique would employ stochastic queueing and inventory models to determine an objective function that includes performance measures such as out of pocket costs raw material WIP and finished goods inventory levels and also customer service levels. Several variations of the global objective exist and may include in addition to the out of pocket costs and finished goods inventory carrying cost WIP and raw material inventory carrying costs and as well as a cost of backorders. A different approach might include performing the global search only on the ROQ values and would subsequently determine a set of ROP s or PLT s that achieved a desired customer service level. Both approaches do not require constraints on capacity because 1 the initial solution is feasible and 2 the WIP grows prohibitively large when approaching the capacity limit. Thus an unconstrained global search will likely result in an optimal set of ROP PLT values and ROQ values.

The procedure is repeated for every WIP level desired step . For a given WIP level an estimation of the corresponding cycle time CT and throughput TH using either a Monte Carlo simulation model or an approximate closed queueing network is calculated. In some embodiments whenever an order is completed a new one is pulled into the flow thereby maintaining a constant WIP level with regard to orders. Other embodiments might consider the WIP in pieces while another may consider WIP in some common unit of measure e.g. kilograms . If the system contains more than one type of product new products are pulled in according to the probability of their occurrence in demand. Once the TH and CT are estimated the values are typically stored and plotted such as on the graphical user interface . This is repeated for each WIP level desired step .

Referring now to the vertical bars denote the total expected inventory days TEID while the solid diamonds denote overall probability of shortage OPS . The solid line is output showing the Capacity Trigger. If any OPS point exceeds the Capacity Trigger additional capacity should be considered. may be considered an overtime graph and provides output in the form of a pie chart indicating that no overtime is being used .

Various modifications and variations of the described methods and systems of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Although the invention has been described in connection with specific preferred embodiments it should be understood that the invention as claimed should not be unduly limited to such specific embodiments. Indeed various modifications of the described modes for carrying out the invention which are obvious to those skilled in the art are intended to be within the scope of the following claims.

