---

title: Copper lowering treatment of inflammatory and fibrotic diseases
abstract: The present invention relates generally to the field of prophylaxis and therapy for inflammatory and/or fibrotic diseases which include responses to injuries. In particular, the present invention is related to agents that can bind or complex copper such as thiomolybdate, and to the use of these agents in the prevention and treatment of inflammatory and/or fibrotic diseases. Exemplary thiomolybdates include mono-, di-, tri- and tetrathiomolybdate; these agents are administered to patients to prevent and/or treat inflammatory and/or fibrotic diseases, such as pulmonary disease including pulmonary fibrosis and acute respiratory distress syndrome, liver disease including liver cirrhosis and hepatitis C, kidney disease including renal interstitial fibrosis, scleroderma, cystic fibrosis, pancreatic fibrosis, keloid, secondary fibrosis in the gastrointestinal tract, hypertrophic burn scars, myocardial fibrosis, Alzheimer's disease, retinal detachment inflammation and/or fibrosis resulting after surgery, and graft versus host and host versus graft rejections.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07758898&OS=07758898&RS=07758898
owner: The Regents of the University of Michigan
number: 07758898
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070529
---
The present application is a divisional of application Ser. No. 11 057 353 filed Feb. 14 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 416 741 which is a continuation of patent application Ser. No. 10 444 204 filed May 23 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 855 340 which claims priority to U.S. 60 382 993 filed on May 24 2002 the disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present invention relates generally to the field of prophylaxis and therapy for inflammatory and fibrotic diseases. In particular the present invention is related to agents that can bind or complex copper and to the use of these agents in the prevention and treatment of inflammatory and fibrotic diseases.

Many diseases begin with inflammation which if excessive may overwhelm and kill the patient or if the patient survives often leads to a disabling fibrosis which ultimately may also kill the patient.

A classic example is ARDS Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome which may be initiated by any one of several lung injuries smoke inhalation near drowning some infections etc. . About one third of these patients die overwhelmed by inflammatory processes in the lung. In those patients that don t die there is a high risk of developing interstitial pulmonary fibrosis which is itself often a progressive and fatal disease. A similar pattern is seen in inflammatory diseases of the liver such as hepatitis C which lead to cirrhosis in inflammatory diseases of the kidney such as glomerulonephritis which lead to glomerulosclerosis and renal interstitial fibrosis and in diseases of the skin leading to systemic sclerosis scleroderma . Other diseases with similar patterns include pancreatic fibrosis bowel inflammations leading to fibrosis and obstruction and acute burn multiple organ damage.

Recently evidence has been accumulating that the common condition of inflammation may also underlie many other chronic and debilitating diseases such as Alzheimer s heart disease osteoporosis and diabetes and that drugs that fight inflammation may have a role in preventing or delaying those diseases or at least slowing them down. Typically anti inflammatory drugs belong to the class of drugs known as nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDS which include ibuprofen and naproxen aspirin and prescription drugs known as cox 2 inhibitors including celecoxib Celebrex and rofecoxib Vioxx as well as diclofenac Voltaren indomethacin Indocin and other less commonly used drugs. However patients at risk for these common and chronic diseases are not encouraged to take anti inflammatory drugs other than aspirin at least in part because regular use of these drugs is not safe for everyone. Side effects can include stomachache or nausea in up to 20 percent of patients and stomach or intestinal ulcers and bleeding in 2 percent to 4 percent of those who take the drugs for a year especially for people over 60. The stomach bleeding can occur with little warning and it can be fatal. Even low doses of aspirin can cause stomach bleeding in some people and it can also cause a slight increase in the risk of a less common type of stroke also brought on by cerebral hemorrhage. Anti inflammatory drugs may make kidney disease worse and cox 2 drugs have been suggested to cause an increase in the risk of heart attack.

Currently there is no effective therapy for these inflammatory and or fibrotic diseases. Moreover anti inflammatory drugs possess high levels of risk especially with prolonged use. Thus what is needed is an effective therapy for inflammatory and or fibrotic disease preferably such therapy is also safe especially for long term use.

The present invention provides an effective and safe therapy for inflammatory and fibrotic diseases which include response to injury. This is accomplished by treating patients suffering from such diseases with agents which reduce the level of endogenous copper in some embodiments this is accomplished by treating patients with agents which complex or bind copper which for some agents may result in the formation of a tripartite agent copper protein complex thus decreasing endogenous copper levels. Effective agents include but are not limited to copper binding or complexing thiomolybdates. The compositions and methods of the present invention result in effective therapy without the side effects and risks associated with anti inflammatory drugs and without the side effects and risks associated with other copper reducing agents.

The present invention provides a method of treating inflammatory or fibrotic disease in a patient comprising administering to the patient having an inflammatory or fibrotic disease a biologically effective amount of at least a first agent that binds or complexes copper. In some embodiments the first agent is a thiomolybdate in other embodiments the thiomolybdate forms a thiomolybdate copper protein complex in a patient. In yet other embodiments the thiomolybdate is tetrathiomolybdate. In some embodiments the patient is a human in other embodiments the patient is a non human animal. In some embodiments the biologically effective amount of the first agent is between about 20 mg and about 200 mg per patient. In some embodiments administering the first agent lowers endogenous copper levels in other embodiments administering the first agent lowers serum ceruloplasmin levels. In some embodiments the first agent is administered orally. In other embodiments the first agent is administered by injection in further embodiments the injection is chosen from intravascular intramuscular or subcutaneous injection.

The present invention also provides a method of treating inflammatory and or fibrotic disease in a patient comprising administering to the patient having an inflammatory and or fibrotic disease a therapeutically effective amount of at least a first agent that binds or complexes copper. In some embodiments the first agent is a thiomolybdate. In further embodiments the thiomolybdate forms a thiomolybdate copper protein complex in a patient. In yet other embodiments the thiomolybdate is tetrathiomolybdate. In some embodiments the patient is a human in other embodiments the patient is a non human animal. In some embodiments the therapeutically effective amount of the first agent is between about 20 mg and 200 mg per patient administered over a therapeutically effective time or period. In other embodiments the therapeutically effective amount of the first agent is between about 20 mg and 200 mg per patient per day. In some embodiments administering the first agent lowers endogenous copper levels in further embodiments administering the first agent lowers serum ceruloplasmin levels. In some embodiments the first agent is administered orally. In other embodiments the first agent is administered by injection in further embodiments the injection is chosen from intravascular intramuscular or subcutaneous injection.

In any of the embodiments described above the inflammatory or fibrotic disease can be chosen from pulmonary disease including pulmonary fibrosis and acute respiratory distress syndrome liver disease including liver cirrhosis and hepatitis C kidney disease including renal interstitial fibrosis scleroderma cystic fibrosis pancreatic fibrosis keloid secondary fibrosis in the gastrointestinal tract hypertrophic burn scars myocardial fibrosis Alzheimer s disease retinal detachment inflammation and or fibrosis resulting after surgery and graft versus host and host versus graft rejections.

The present invention also provides any of the embodiments described above where the method further comprises administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of at least a second agent where the second agent is chosen from anti inflammatory agents anti fibrotic agents and anti angiogenesis agents. In some of these embodiments the second agent is chosen from a steroid a NSAIDS non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs a chemotherapeutic agent as used in some auto immune diseases and an antibody or antisense agent directed to specific cytokines or to cytokine receptors or to other molecules which enhance inflammation and or fibrosis.

The present invention also provides a method of prophylactic or therapeutic intervention in a patient at risk of developing an inflammatory and or fibrotic disease comprising administering to the patient at risk for developing an inflammatory and or fibrotic disease a biologically effective amount of at least a first agent that binds or complexes copper. In some embodiments the first agent is a thiomolybdate in other embodiments the thiomolybdate forms a thiomolybdate copper protein complex in a patient. In yet other embodiments the thiomolybdate is tetrathiomolybdate. In some embodiments the patient is a human in other embodiments the patient is a non human animal. In some embodiments the biologically effective amount of the first agent is between about 20 mg and about 200 mg per patient. In some embodiments administering the first agent lowers endogenous copper levels in other embodiments administering the first agent lowers serum ceruloplasmin levels. In some embodiments the first agent is administered orally. In other embodiments the first agent is administered by injection in further embodiments the injection is chosen from intravascular intramuscular or subcutaneous injection. In yet other embodiments the method further comprises administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of at least a second agent where the second agent is chosen from anti inflammatory agents anti fibrotic agents and anti angiogenesis agents. In some of these embodiments the second agent is chosen from a steroid a NSAIDS non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs a chemotherapeutic agent as used in some auto immune diseases and an antibody or antisense agent directed to specific cytokines or to cytokine receptors or to other molecules which enhance inflammation and or fibrosis.

The present invention also provides a composition comprising a combined therapeutic amount of at least a first agent that binds or complexes copper and at least a second agent where the second agent is chosen from anti inflammatory agents anti fibrotic agents and anti angiogenesis agents. In some embodiments the first agent is a thiomolybdate in some further embodiments the thiomolybdate is tetrathiomolybdate. In other embodiments the second agent is chosen from a steroid a NSAIDS non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs a chemotherapeutic agent as used in some auto immune diseases and an antibody or antisense agent directed to specific cytokines or to cytokine receptors or to other molecules which enhance inflammation and or fibrosis.

The present invention also provides a therapeutic kit comprising in at least a first suitable container a therapeutically effective combined amount of at least a first agent that binds or complexes copper and at least a second agent where the second agent is chosen from anti inflammatory agents anti fibrotic agents and anti angiogenesis agents. In some embodiments the first agent is a thiomolybdate in some further embodiments the thiomolybdate is a tetrathiomolybdate. In other embodiments the second agent is chosen from a steroid a NSAIDS non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs a chemotherapeutic agent as used in some auto immune diseases and an antibody or antisense agent directed to specific cytokines or to cytokine receptors or to other molecules which enhance inflammation and or fibrosis. In yet other embodiments the kit further comprises appropriate instructions and labels for use of the agents.

The agents for use in the present invention such as copper binding or complexing thiomolybdates of which tetrathiomolybdate is an example lower endogenous copper levels although it is not necessary to understand the mechanism of these agents and the invention is not intended to be limited to any particular mechanism it is contemplated that in some embodiments the agents lower endogenous copper levels by forming a tripartite agent copper protein complex that is subsequently cleared from the body. The copper bound in these tripartite agent copper protein complex is not reversibly released from these complexes and are thus distinguished from reversible bipartite copper chelation.

The present invention further provides method and compositions for treating an inflammatory diseases in a patient comprising administering to the patient having an inflammatory disease a biologically effective amount of at least a first agent that binds or complexes copper under conditions such that the level of at least one inflammatory cytokine in the patient is reduced. In some of these embodiments the inflammatory cytokine comprises TNF in other embodiments the inflammatory cytokine comprises Il 1 . The present invention is not limited however to providing methods and compositions that lower the levels of the aforementioned cytokines.

To facilitate an understanding of the present invention a number of abbreviations terms and phrases as used herein are defined below.

The term inflammatory is used to refer to pertaining characterized by causing resulting from or becoming affected by inflammation. An inflammation is a fundamental pathologic process consisting of a dynamic complex of cytologic and chemical reactions that occur in the affected blood vessels and adjacent tissues in response to an injury or abnormal stimulation caused by a physical chemical or biologic agent these reactions include the local reactions and resulting morphologic changes the destruction or removal of the injurious material and the responses that lead to repair and healing.

The term fibrotic is used to refer to pertaining to or characterized by fibrosis. Fibrosis in disease or response to injury is the dysregulated excessive formation of fibrous tissue as a reactive process as opposed to formation of fibrous tissue as a normal constituent of an organ or tissue or as a part of normal repair of tissue.

The term disease refers to an interruption cessation or disorder of body function systems or organs. The term disease includes responses to injuries especially if such responses are excessive. The term condition is used to refer to a disease or a response to injury. An inflammatory disease refers to a disease caused by or resulting from or resulting in inflammation. A fibrotic disease refers to a disease caused by or resulting from or resulting in fibrosis. A disease may include a response to injury especially where the response is excessive does not heal normally and or produces symptoms that excessively interfere with normal activities of an individual where excessive is characterized as the degree of interference or the length of the interference .

The term injury refers to damage or wound of trauma. A response to injury may be inflammation and or fibrosis.

The term anti inflammatory is used to refer to an effect or compound which has an effect of preventing inhibiting alleviating or decreasing inflammation or components of an inflammatory reaction either completely or partially.

The term anti fibrotic is used to refer to an effect or compound which has an effect of preventing inhibiting alleviating or decreasing fibrosis or components of the fibrotic reaction either completely or partially.

The term biocompatible refers to compositions comprised of natural or synthetic materials in any suitable combination that remain substantially biologically unreactive in a subject or patient. The term substantially unreactive means that any response observed in a subject or patient is a subclinical response i.e. a response that does not rise to a level necessary for therapy.

The term biologically active agent or therapeutic agent refers to an agent that possesses an activity or property capable of affecting or effecting a biochemical function such as a structural for example binding ability or regulatory activity or a reaction. Biochemical functions include but are not limited to physiological genetic cellular tissue and organismal activities. Moreover as used herein the term agent refers to biologically active agents and therapeutic agents except where noted otherwise. Biological activities include activities associated with biological reactions or events in a subject or patient preferably such activities can be detected monitored characterized or measured.

The term endogenous copper level refers to the total amount of copper in the body of a patient this amount includes both tissue and fluid amounts. The amount of copper in the body can also be divided into the amounts of available and amounts of unavailable copper. The copper status of a patient refers to the amount of available copper. Copper status is determined in the blood of a healthy individual for example by the concurrent measurement of plasma copper and ceruloplasmin. Normal plasma copper is present in two primary pools. Most plasma copper in normal individuals is part of the ceruloplasmin molecule. This copper is essentially unavailable for ready exchange with cells. Another pool of copper is more loosely bound to albumin and small molecules such as amino acids. This latter pool of copper is readily available for cellular uptake. When TM enters the blood it complexes with the available copper and renders it like ceruloplasmin copper unavailable for cellular uptake. In TM treated patients copper status can be determined by measuring plasma ceruloplasmin alone. As the level of available copper decreases the level of ceruloplasmin also decreases as the amount of plasma ceruloplasmin is dependent upon copper availability.

The term lowering endogenous copper level refers to decreasing the copper level in the body of an animal typically by administration of an agent which binds or complexes copper from the level existing just before administration of the agent copper binding agents include but are not limited to thiomolybdates of which tetrathiomolybdate is an example. Typically more than one dose of a copper binding agent is required to lower the endogenous copper level.

The term therapeutically effective amount is a functional term referring to an amount of material needed to make a qualitative or quantitative change in a clinically measured parameter for a particular subject. For example prior to administration the subject may exhibit at least one measurable symptom of disease or response to injury for example pulmonary congestion and or difficulty breathing evidence of hepatitis or decrease in liver function evidence or kidney inflammation or decrease in kidney function etc which upon administration of a therapeutically effective amount the measurable symptom is found to have changed. A therapeutically relevant effect relieves to some extent one or more symptoms of a disease or condition or returns to normal either partially or completely one or more physiological or biochemical parameters associated with or causative of the disease.

In particular the term refers to an amount of an agent that binds or complexes copper such as thiomolybdate which amount is effective to treat an inflammatory and or fibrotic disease and or response to injury upon administration to a patient suffering from such a disease or response to injury. Treatment includes but is not limited to preventing the onset or shortening the course or severity of or reversing the effects of inflammatory and or fibrotic disease or response to injury thus a therapeutically effective amount includes a prophylactically effective amount. In some embodiments such effects are achieved while exhibiting negligible or manageable adverse side effects on normal healthy tissues of the patient. Thus the therapeutically effective amount can vary from patient to patient depending upon a number of factors including but not limited to the type of disease the extent of the disease and the size of the patient.

The term biologically effective amount is a functional term referring to an amount of material needed to make a qualitative or quantitative change in a biological activity of a particular subject such activities include but are not limited to enzyme activities production of antigen and clearance of analyte from serum.

In particular the term refers to an amount of an agent that binds or complexes copper such as thiomolybdate which amount is effective to decrease the level of endogenous copper levels upon administration to a patient.

The term therapeutically effective time refers to the period of time during which a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic agent or biologically active agent is administered sufficient to prevent the onset or to shorten the course or severity of or to reverse the effects of a disease. In particular it is the period of time sufficient to both reduce the endogenous copper level to a target level and or to maintain the target copper level to prevent the onset or to shorten the course or severity of or to reverse the effects of inflammatory and or fibrotic disease.

The term thiomolybdate refers to molecules comprising molybdenum and sulfur and include but are not limited to species such as MoS and MoOS2 . These molecules can act as bidentate ligands and can complex copper. Examples of thiomolybdates include but are not limited to tetrathiomolybdate trithiomolybdate dithiomolybdate and monothiomolybdate. Other examples include complex thiomolybdates which include but are not limited to a zinc or an iron between two thiomolybdate groups and which contain thiomolybdate capable of binding or complexing copper. In exemplary complex thiomolybdates the molecule may have more than four thio groups related to more than one molybdenum.

The term tetrathiomolybdate TM refers to a compound made up of molybdenum atom surrounded by four sulfur groups MoS .

The terms bind complex and chelate and any grammatical equivalents such as binds binding etc. refer to any type of chemical or molecular interactions of copper with thiomolybdate which effectively sequester the copper with the thiomolybdate when the copper is endogenous to a patient and thiomolybdate is administered to the patient the terms refer to any type of chemical interactions of copper with thiomolybdate which effectively sequester the copper with the thiomolybdate rendering the copper unavailable and ultimately removing it from the patient s body.

A therapeutically effective amount of a range of values includes all values in this range. Thus for example a therapeutically effective amount of between about 20 mg and about 200 mg includes all values in this range and thus includes amounts of about 25 mg about 30 mg about 40 mg about 50 mg about 60 mg about 70 mg about 75 mg about 80 mg about 90 mg about 100 mg about 1100 mg about 120 mg about 125 mg about 130 mg about 140 mg about 150 mg about 160 mg about 170 mg about 180 mg about 190 mg or about 195 mg.

The terms pharmaceutically acceptable physiologically tolerable and grammatical variations thereof as they refer to compositions carriers diluents and reagents are used interchangeably and represent that the materials are capable of administration to or upon a subject or patient preferably a mammal most preferably a human and that the materials do not substantially produce for example adverse or allergic reactions when administered to a subject or patient or can be administered without the production of undesirable physiological effects such as nausea dizziness gastric upset toxicity and the like. As used herein pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes any and all solvents dispersion media coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like. The use of such media and agents for pharmaceutical active substances is well known in the art. Except insofar as any conventional media or agent is incompatible with the active ingredient its use in the therapeutic compositions is contemplated. Supplementary active ingredients can also be incorporated into the compositions.

The term aqueous component refers to the component of a composition that contains water or is soluble in water . Where water is used it may or may not contain salt s and may or may not be buffered. Thus a variety of such components are contemplated including but not limited to distilled water deionized water normal saline and phosphate buffered saline.

The term carrier refers to a diluent adjuvant excipient or vehicle with which a compound is administered. Such pharmaceutical carriers can be sterile liquids such as water and oils including those of petroleum animal vegetable or synthetic origin such as peanut oil soybean oil mineral oil sesame oil and the like. Water or aqueous solution saline solutions and aqueous dextrose and glycerol solutions are preferably employed as carriers particularly for injectable solutions.

The term patient refers to any animal for example warm blooded mammal comprising humans and non human animals where non human animals include but are not limited to non human primates rodents farm animals for example cattle horses pigs goats and sheep pets for example dogs cats ferrets and rodents and the like that is to be the recipient of a particular treatment. The terms patient and subject are used interchangeably. The term individual refers to any animal as described above who may or may not be a patient. A patient having a disease or condition is a patient suffering the disease or condition and is in need of treatment of the disease or condition.

The term test compound refers to any chemical entity pharmaceutical drug and the like that can be used to treat or prevent a disease illness sickness or disorder of bodily function. Test compounds comprise both known and potential therapeutic compounds. A test compound can be determined to be therapeutic by using the screening methods of the present invention. A known therapeutic compound refers to a therapeutic compound that has been shown for example through animal trials or prior experience with administration to humans to be effective in such treatment or prevention.

The terms purify or to purify refer to the removal of contaminants from a sample. The term purified refers to molecules such as nucleic or amino acid sequences that are removed from their natural environment isolated or separated. An isolated nucleic acid sequence is therefore a purified nucleic acid sequence. Substantially purified molecules are at least 60 free preferably at least 75 free and more preferably at least 90 free from other components with which they are naturally associated. As used herein the term purified or to purify also refers to the removal of contaminants from a sample. The removal of contaminating proteins results in an increase in the percent of polypeptide of interest in the sample. In another example recombinant polypeptides are expressed in plant bacterial yeast or mammalian host cells and the polypeptides are purified by the removal of host cell proteins the percent of recombinant polypeptides is thereby increased in the sample.

The term medical devices includes any material or device that is used on in or through a patient s body in the course of medical treatment for example for a disease or injury . Medical devices include but are not limited to such items as syringes catheters intravenous administration assemblies including pumps and monitors blood sampling equipment nebulizers small particle aerosol generators inhalers with a propellant and the like.

As used herein the term sample is used in its broadest sense. In one sense it is meant to include a specimen or culture obtained from any source as well as biological and environmental samples. Biological samples may be obtained from an animal including a human a particular biological sample may be a fluid for example blood plasma and serum a solid for example stool or a tissue other biological samples may be obtained from other biological sources such as food and may be a liquid food for example milk or a solid food for example vegetables . Environmental samples include environmental material such as surface matter soil water crystals and industrial samples. These examples are not to be construed as limiting the sample types applicable to the present invention.

The present invention provides methods to prevent and or treat excessive inflammation that is part of the illness in many diseases and or part of the responses to injuries by administering therapeutically effect amounts of a copper binding or complexing agent such as thiomolybdate of which tetrathiomolybdate TM is an example to a patient in need thereof. The present invention also provides methods to prevent and or treat excessive fibrosis that is part of the illness and or part of the response to injury in many diseases by administering therapeutically effect amounts of a copper binding or complexing agent such thiomolybdate of which tetrathiomolybdate TM is an example to a patient in need thereof.

Over the last several years a common biochemical pathway has been elucidated for diseases which begin with inflammation and which if the patient survives often lead to a disabling or potentially even lethal fibrosis. A partial list of such diseases or conditions includes but is not limited to liver cirrhosis renal interstitial fibrosis often a final common pathway for many types of renal damage systemic sclerosis frequently complicated by pulmonary fibrosis keloid hypertrophic burn scarring and excessive fibrosis in various parts of the intestinal tract in some patients after disease or injury. The fibrosis may also be fatal such as it is in ARDS and hepatitis C. A key player in all of these diseases is transforming growth factor beta TGF . The presence activation or production of TGF activates connective tissue growth factor CTGF which then stimulates collagen production as well as other molecules of fibrosis. The over activity of this pathway is a common feature of fibrotic diseases in all organs of the body. The activation of this pathway thus activates a host of inflammatory and fibrosis inducing cytokines. TGF may also activate cytokines other than through CTGF. While all of these factors and cytokines are normal substances and have important physiological functions it has been discovered that their over production and dysregulation play a central role in producing the aftermath diseases discussed above.

Treatment methods of the present invention lower endogenous copper levels and abrogate and treat diseases which begin with inflammation and which upon patient survival often lead to disabling or even lethal fibrosis. In some embodiments such therapy involves administering a copper binding or complexing thiomolybdate of which tetrathiomolybdate is an example. In the following description it is understood that tetrathiomolybdate is simply an embodiment of the use of a copper binding or complexing thiomolybdates. While an understanding of the mechanism is not necessary to practice the present invention and the present invention is not limited to any particular mechanism it is contemplated that reduction of endogenous copper levels alters the regulation of CTFG TGF SPARC and or heparin. The contemplated altered regulation of these molecules is based upon observations that CTGF is a cysteine rich protein and that cysteine rich proteins are often involved in copper binding and copper dependence that TGF can be stimulated or activated by secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine SPARC a known copper dependent cytokine and that TGF itself is dependent upon interaction with heparin molecules many of which are known to bind copper and require copper for activity.

Tetrathiomolybdate TM is a unique anticopper drug which forms a stable tripartite complex with protein and copper. In the gut if given with food it prevents the absorption of copper from food and from endogenous secretions saliva gastric juice etc . If given away from food it is partially absorbed and inactivates copper in the blood by forming a three way complex with serum albumin. Since the free copper of the blood is in equilibrium with free copper in organs it is possible to quickly titrate the body s free copper. TM is the most potent and rapidly acting anticopper drug available.

TM was developed for treating an inherited disease of copper toxicity Wilson s disease as described subsequently. The development of the treatment of Wilson s disease with TM has demonstrated that TM is safe and effective and that it is particularly useful in the acutely ill copper toxic patient. The preparation of an NDA for the treatment of Wilson s disease with TM is underway.

The ability of copper reducing agents to be effective at abrogating and treating diseases and or responses to injuries which begin with inflammation and which may lead to disabling fibrosis or inflammatory and or fibrotic diseases was initially evaluated during the development of the present invention by studying the effects of TM treatment on pulmonary disease and liver disease in good animal models which exist for both diseases as described further below.

The profibrotic pathway involving TGF and CTGF is central to pathological fibrosis in many organs besides the lungs W A Border and N A Noble N. Engl. J. Med. 331 19 1286 1292 1994 and D R Brigstock Endocr. Rev. 20 2 189 206 1999 as is described further below. The effectiveness of TM in treating pulmonary fibrosis as described below shows that TM therapy finds use in treating these other and similar diseases of excessive fibrosis and or inflammation. Other diseases amenable to TM therapy include but are not limited to renal fibrosis and Alzheimer s disease as described further below. It is therefore contemplated that in other embodiments of the present invention the administration of therapeutically effective amounts of TM to patients susceptible to pathological fibrosis in other organs prevents and or treats these diseases.

Other approaches to treatment of inflammatory and fibrotic diseases include other copper lowering drugs antibodies or antisense molecules to key cytokines such as to TGF or to CTGF and other drugs which shut down the system. However certain of these approaches may work better than others. Other copper lowering drugs include penicillamine trientine and zinc. Both penicillamine and trientine are relatively toxic and trientine is also relatively slow acting moreover zinc is also slow acting. Other potential drugs include antibodies or antisense molecules to key cytokines such as to TGF or to CTGF. For example it is known that antibody to TGF is effective in treating the bleomycin mouse model. However antibodies and antisense molecules are difficult to deliver and sustain at therapeutically effective levels in clinical situations. Other potential drugs shut down the TGF system. For example a drug called perfenidone is effective in the bleomycin mouse model and may affect the transcription of TGF. However at present perfenidone does not appear to be in clinical use and little is known about it.

In contrast to these other approaches the therapeutic use of TM has been demonstrated to be safe and effective as described further below and studies conducted during the development of the present invention have demonstrated that therapeutically lowering endogenous copper with TM will beneficially affect a series of diseases dependent upon the TGF pathway. Therefore the present invention provides methods of treating inflammatory and or fibrotic diseases and or responses to injuries by therapeutically lowering endogenous copper levels in a patient in need thereof. Preferably such conditions are dependent upon the TGF pathway. In some embodiments the therapy comprises administering therapeutically effective amounts of a copper binding or complexing agent for a therapeutically effective time. Exemplary agents include but are not limited to thiomolybdates of which tetra tri di and monothiomolybdates are non limiting examples.

For examining pulmonary disease the bleomycin mouse model was used. Pulmonary fibrosis idiopathic or otherwise is commonly progressive and essentially untreatable with a fatal outcome R K Coker and G J Laurent Thorax. 52 3 294 296 1997 and K Zhang and S H Phan Biol. Signals. 5 232 239 1996 . It is clear from a rather wide body of work that the underlying mechanism involves dysregulation and overproduction of certain cytokines R K Coker and G J Laurent Thorax. 52 3 294 296 1997 K Zhang and S H Phan Biol. Signals. 5 232 239 1996 S H Phan Thorax. 50 4 415 421 1995 R E Smith et al. J. Leukoc. Biol. 57 5 782 787 1995 and C M Hogaboam et al. Proc. Assoc. Am. Physicians 110 4 313 320 1998 . A central mechanism is hypothesized to involve continued overproduction of transforming growth factor beta TGF which in turn increases the production and or activity of connective tissue growth factor CTGF N Khalil and A H Greenberg Ciba Found. Symp. 157 194 211 1991 W A Border and N A Noble N. Engl. J. Med. 331 19 1286 1292 1994 M Denis Immunology 82 4 584 590 1994 J A Lasky et al. The American Physiological Society L365 L371 1998 D R Brigstock Endocr. Rev. 20 2 189 206 1999 J T Allen et al. Cell Mol. Biol. 21 693 700 1999 and J F Pittet et al. J. Clin. Invest. 107 537 1544 2001 .

Bleomycin when given to cancer patients produces pulmonary fibrosis in about 3 of the patients M Ishizuka et al. J. Antibiot. Tokyo 20 15 1967 . Based upon these observations a mouse model of pulmonary fibrosis has been developed in which intratracheal instillation of bleomycin uniformly produces pulmonary fibrosis R E Smith J. Leukoc. Biol. 57 5 782 787 1995 N Khalil and A H Greenberg Ciba Found. Symp. 157 194 211 1991 J A Lasky The American Physiological Society L365 L371 1998 D R Brigstock Endocr. Rev. 20 2 189 206 1999 J T Allen et al. Am. J. Respir. Cell Mol. Biol. 21 693 700 1999 S H Phan and S L Kunkel Exp. Lung. Res. 18 29 43 1992 and J. Clin. Invest. 107 537 1544 . Thus the mice develop a severe lung inflammation followed by fibrosis in 2 3 weeks at which time they are sacrificed. Fibrosis is quantified in lung tissue by measuring hydroxyproline a key component of the collagen that is deposited in fibrotic lung. The mouse bleomycin model is believed to be a good model for human pulmonary fibrosis. The hypothesis that TGF is central to pulmonary fibrosis has been validated by studies showing that inhibition of TGF by pharmacological means or by antibodies greatly reduces the pulmonary fibrosis produced by bleomycin or other methods of lung injury in the mouse M Denis Immunology 82 4 584 590 1994 and J F Pittet et al. J. Clin. Invest. 107 537 1544 2001 .

Using the bleomycin mouse model to examine the effects of TM treatment in developing the present invention it was observed that copper lowering therapy with TM can dramatically prevent most of the lung damage and fibrosis from tracheal bleomycin instillation in mice as described in Example 1 and as shown in Table 1 . Moreover there is a strong dose response relationship between the amount of TM administered and the degree of pulmonary protection as shown in Table 3 and . TM therapy also protects against bleomycin induced weight loss as shown in . TM treatment can be initiated for example up to at least seven days after the bleomycin instillation and still offer significant protection against pulmonary damage as shown in . These results indicated that TM treatment completely abrogated fibrosis and markedly attenuated inflammation in an animal model that is directly relevant to ARDS and pulmonary fibrosis in humans.

Although it is not necessary to understand the mechanism in order to practice the invention and it is not intended that the invention be limited to any particular mechanism it is hypothesized that the mechanism of the protection effected by TM therapy is due to the inhibition of one or more steps in the profibrotic pathway which involves activation of TGF which in turn activates CTGF which then activates the formation of collagen and other profibrotic molecules as described above.

It is also possible that the mechanism of this effect involves primarily suppression of inflammation as for example by inhibiting proinflammatory cytokines. If the inflammatory reaction to bleomycin is mitigated by TM therapy the signaling to the fibrotic pathway might be lessened resulting in less fibrosis. However the observation that TM therapy initiated significantly after bleomycin instillation as for example at day 7 still has a significant effect in inhibiting fibrosis as described in Example 1 and shown in suggests that suppression of inflammation is not the sole effect of TM. That is because TM therapy initiated on day 7 would not reduce copper levels at the therapeutic area until about day 11 by which time all or most of the inflammation and inflammatory stimuli would have subsided. The positive results observed when the drug treatment is initiated significantly after bleomycin instillation thus suggests that TM can act by direct inhibition of the fibrotic pathway. Of course TM therapy might result in inhibition of both inflammation and fibrosis.

Irrespective of the pathway involved or of the underlying molecular mechanism the fact that TM therapy can so markedly inhibit fibrosis in this model confirms the use of this approach to preventing and treating pulmonary fibrosis in human patients. The experimental results indicate that TM therapy is effective after injury as for example as is shown in which supports its efficacy in clinical use. The use of TM has previously been proven to be remarkably safe as demonstrated by its considerable experimental use in humans for treatment of Wilson s disease G J Brewer et al. Arch. Neur. 53 1017 1025 1996 and G J Brewer PSEBM 223 1 39 49 2000 and for treatment of cancer G J Brewer et al. Clin. Cancer. 6 1 10 2000 and G J Brewer Soc. for Exp. Biol. and Med. 226 665 673 2001 . The only side effect of lowering copper levels by TM therapy in cancer has been over treatment which leads to an easily reversible bone marrow depression. The use of serum ceruloplasmin as a surrogate to monitor copper status has proven to be effective reliable and easy to use G J Brewer et al. Clin. Cancer 6 1 10 2000 .

Based upon these results clinical use of TM therapy for ARDS and or pulmonary fibrosis in human patients is contemplated. It is therefore contemplated that in other embodiments of the present invention the administration of therapeutically effective amounts of TM to patients susceptible to pulmonary fibrosis prevents and or treats this disease.

For examining liver disease studies of the mouse model of liver damage hepatitis followed by cirrhosis were undertaken. Two of four appropriate mouse models were involved. In one model concanavilin A ConA treatment was utilized to produce cirrhosis. The Con A was injected intravenously once weekly into mice and produced a hepatitis which is manifested by an increasing level of transaminase enzymes in the blood. TM therapy almost completely inhibits this increase indicating suppression of inflammation as is described in Example 7 and as is shown in . The results indicated that TM treatment completely abrogated fibrosis and markedly attenuated inflammation in a model that is directly relevant to hepatitis in humans. It is therefore contemplated that in other embodiments of the present invention the administration to patients in need thereof of therapeutically effective amounts of TM after liver damage due to hepatitis prevents or decreases subsequent cirrhosis.

After kidney injury of almost any type a diffuse interstitial fibrosis believed to be due to over activity of the TGF pathway produces kidney failure. It is therefore contemplated that in other embodiments of the present invention the administration to patients in need thereof of therapeutically effective amounts of TM after kidney injury prevents or decreases fibrosis thereby preventing or abrogating kidney failure subsequent to kidney damage.

TGF has been implicated in Alzheimer s plaque formation. Moreover copper has been implicated in the precipitation of the amyloid into the plaques in the course of the disease. It is therefore contemplated that in further embodiments of the present invention the administration to patients in need thereof of TM results in lowering copper levels thus preventing any further precipitation this results in arresting the Alzheimer s disease and in some cases allows some recovery from the disease.

According to R S Turner Neurologic aspects of Alzheimer s disease In Interdisciplinary handbook of dementia psychological neurologic and psychiatric perspectives. John Wiley Sons. Lichtenberg Pa. Murman D L. and Mellow A M Alzheimer s disease AD currently affects about 2 3 of individuals at age 65 and the incidence approximately doubles for every 5 years of age afterward. The prevalence of AD approaches 50 of those over age 85 as reported by D A Evans et al. JAMA 262 2551 2556 1989 . AD is not inevitable with aging however and escapees warrant further epidemiologic and genetic study. In 1990 there were an estimated 4 million people in the U.S. with AD. Because of an expanding population and increasing life expectancy the number of affected individuals is projected to increase to 14 million in the U.S. in 2050. Women make up a larger proportion of patients who live and die with AD due to a higher relative risk and longer life expectancy than men. In 2001 the annual costs for care of a patient with AD were approximately 28 000 for formal care and 11 000 35 000 for informal care D P Rice et al. Am. J. Manag. Care 7 809 818 2001 . The high prevalence of AD results in an enormous economic impact. As the elderly population also increases in less affluent countries large numbers of patients with AD will emerge and face intense competition from the younger populace for scarce health care resources. The slow progression of disease with an average of 7 years and a range of 2 18 years engenders many years of health care costs. As dementia becomes severe and patients become progressively more dependent on caregivers for basic activities of daily living expenditures increase. A major cost for many patients in the latter stages of AD is assisted living and nursing home care.

Genetically AD is a multifactorial disease with the possible involvement of several genetic components E K Luedecking et al. Hum. Genet. 106 565 569 2000 . Three causative genes at chromosomes 21 14 and 1 have been identified in the early onset form of AD. These three genes amyloid precursor protein APP presenilin 1 PS1 and presenilin 2 PS2 account for most of the cases of autosomal dominant familial AD C L Lendon et al. JAMA 277 825 831 1997 . Familial AD however accounts for 

Biochemically AD is characterized by the deposition of beta amyloid protein A within the neocortex associated with neuronal demise and oxidative stress A I Bush Bio inorganic Chemistry 184 191 2000 . The deposition of A is considered to be closely related to the primary pathogenesis of AD. For example familial AD linked mutations of APP PS1 and PS2 increase both cerebral A burden and A 1 42 production underscoring the role that A metabolism plays in AD pathogenesis C S Atwood et al. Met. Ions Biol. Syst. 36 309 364 1999 . Moreover the deposition of A in the neocortex of transgenic mice overexpressing A is accompanied by many of the other neuropathological features of AD including intraneuronal tau abnormalities and neuronal loss M E Calhoun et al. Nature 395 755 756 1998 as well as signs of oxidative damage similar to those seen in AD affected brain MA Smith et al. J. Neurochem. 70 2212 2215 1998 . The length of the A species is considered to be one important factor in AD pathogenesis as A 1 42 a minor free soluble species in biological fluids is enriched in amyloid deposits. Many studies have now confirmed that A is neurotoxic in cell culture. Hence there is a compelling argument to consider A deposition as a therapeutic target in AD A I Bush Metals and neuroscience. Bio inorganic chemistry 184 191 2000 .

For examining the effects of TM on Alzheimer s disease the transgenic mouse model Tg2576 is used. Transgenic tg mouse models have proven to be useful tools in testing hypotheses of AD pathogenesis as well as testing novel therapeutic strategies Turner R S. Commentary . Tg human amyloid precursor protein hAPP mice recapitulate some but not all features of human AD and may therefore be best described as developing a partial AD like phenotype with aging. However the distribution of amyloid pathology in tg hAPP mouse brain is remarkably similar to the human disease. One of the more widely studied hAPP tg mouse lines Tg2576 mice developed by Hsiao et al. K Hsiao Exp. Gerontol. 33 883 889 1998 and K Hsiao et al. Science 274 99 102 1996 expresses the familial AD gene hAPP swe Swedish mutation APPin the APP770 numbering system in a C57B6 SJL genetic background. The neuron specific prion protein promoter drives expression of the transgene. With aging Tg2576 mice exhibit a phenotype that includes learning and memory deficits an abnormal pattern of glucose metabolism in brain and pathologic changes including amyloid plaque deposition elevated A 40 and A 42 levels neuritic changes phosphorylated tau epitopes synuclein positive dystrophic neurites gliosis and inflammatory responses however aging mice develop neither neurofibrillary tangles nor significant neuronal loss R S Turner Commentary K Hsiao Exp. Gerontol. 33 883 889 1998 and K Hsiao et al. Science 274 99 102 1996 . Cholinergic abnormalities in the immediate vicinity of amyloid plaques are apparent in immunostained brain sections from older hAPP tg C Sturchler Pierrat et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 94 13287 13292 1997 and hPresenilin 1 mutant hAPP double tg mice T P Wong et al. J. Neurosci. 19 2706 2716 1999 .

Amyloid plaque deposition in aging hAPP tg mice may be modulated pharmacologically immunologically environmentally and genetically. For example amyloid pathology is accelerated in hPresenilin 1 mutant hAPP double tg mice L Holcomb et al. Nat. Med. 4 97 100 1998 and absent in murine ApoE null hAPP tg mice K R Bales et al. Nature Genet. 17 263 264 1997 . In the latter mice hApoE4 transgene expression promotes more fibrillar amyloid deposition than hApoE3 D M Holtzman et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 97 2892 2897 2000 . Human transforming growth factor 1 hAPP double tg mice develop increased A deposition within plaques with a greater proportion of meningeal and vascular deposition reflecting a role of inflammation in amyloidogenesis T Wyss Coray et al. Nature 389 603 606 1997 . Amyloid pathology in hAPP tg mice may be prevented by pharmacologic treatment with the phosphatidylinositol kinase inhibitor wortmannin that inhibits A production in vitro S J Haugabook et al. FASEB Journal published online 9 Nov. 2000 by the Cu Zn chelator antibiotic clioquinol that blocks amyloid fibril formation in vitro L Helmuth Science 1273 274 2000 editorial or by the nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drug ibuprofen G P Lim et al. J. Neurosci. 20 5709 5714 2000 . The efficacy of this wide variety of pharmacologic treatments in preventing amyloid deposition in tg AD mice reveals multiple alternative and competing therapeutic strategies. Novel therapeutics targeting the recently identified secretase complex and secretases that generate A 40 and A 42 from APP and immune based strategies are also under experimental investigation D J Selkoe Nature 399 suppl A23 31 1999 . It is contemplated that administration of a copper binding or complexing agent such as thiomolybdate to Tg2576 mice results in a reduction of A 40 and A 42 levels in brain homogenates.

Research indicates that angiogenesis is required for cancer growth and since adults have little requirement for angiogenesis the present invention contemplates that antiangiogenic therapies might provide successful cancer treatments.

Copper has been shown to be a stimulus of angiogenesis in a rabbit cornea model in which copper sulfate or a copper containing molecule ceruloplasmin were both angiogenic A Parke et al. Am. J. Clin. Path. 137 1121 1142 1988 K S Raju et al. J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 69 1183 1188 1982 . When rabbits were made partially copper deficient with penicillamine and a low copper diet an angiogenic molecule PGE1 placed in the cornea showed markedly reduced angiogenesis. Brem and colleagues implanted brain tumors in the brains of copper deficient rabbits and rats and showed markedly reduced growth and invasive properties of the tumors in the copper deficient animals compared to controls S S Brem et al. Am. J. Path. 137 1121 1147 1990 S S Brem et al. Neurosurgery 26 391 396 1990 . Some embodiments of the present invention provide TM compositions that are more potent and much safer anticopper drugs then penicillamine and trientine and which are contemplated for use in treating cancer. Indeed in five different rodent cancer models TM has shown dramatic effects on inhibition of tumor growth including the HER2 neu transgenic mammary model Q Pan et al. Cancer Res. 62 4854 4859 2002 a head and neck model C Cox et al. Laryngoscope 111 696 701 2001 a prostate model K van Golen et al. Neoplasia 4 5 373 379 2002 a lung model M Khan et al. Neoplasia 4 2 1 7 2002 and an inflammatory breast model Q Pan Q et al. . TM has also shown positive effects in spontaneous canine cancers. A clinical phase study of a variety of metastatic and advanced cancers has shown positive results with an average of 11 months freedom from progression in evaluable patients and long term stabilization in three patients G J Brewer et al. Clin. Cancer Res. 6 1 10 2000 . A number of phase 2 studies of specific cancers are under way.

While not being limited to any mechanism the present invention contemplates that the antiangiogenic mechanism of TM appears to involve the copper dependence of a large number of angiogenic promoters G J Brewer EBM 226 665 673 2001 . In addition lowering copper levels to a midrange inhibits nuclear factor kappa B NF b a type of master switch for cytokine transcription. These mechanisms may make copper lowering therapy a more global inhibitor of angiogenesis than other approaches. In some embodiments copper is maintained in the midrange by using ceruloplasmin Cp levels as a surrogate marker of copper status.

The present invention also contemplates the antiangiogenic therapeutic effects of TM in diseases of neovascularization besides cancer e.g. animal models of retinopathy . In retinopathy of prematurity newborn mice exposed to hyperoxia for five days develop a marked retinopathy after four days exposure to room air with a peak of a major angiogenic stimulus vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF at 24 hours. TM treatment has shown strong inhibition of the VEGF peak and a dramatic reduction in retinal neovascularization.

The invention s success with the antiangiogenic use of TM through its inhibition of angiogenic cytokines led to investigation of key cytokines of fibrosis and inflammation which become dysregulated in a series of diseases of fibrosis and inflammation that may be similarly copper dependent and treatable with TM.

The specific cause of primary biliary cirrhosis PBC remains unknown although it is though to be an autoimmune disorder R T Chung and D K Podolsky Cirrhosis and its complications Primary biliary cirrhosis. In Harrison s Principles of Internal Medicine 15th edition E Braunwald et al. Eds . McGraw Hill Companies Inc New York pp. 1757 1758 2001 . A circulating IgG antimitochondrial antibody AMA is found in more than 90 of patients and only rarely in other diseases. PBC is often associated with other autoimmune disorders such as autoimmune thyroiditis type I diabetes mellitus and other autoimmune syndromes.

The disease is divided into four stages. Stage I is a necrotizing inflammatory process of the portal triads with destruction of smaller bile ducts a heavy infiltrate of inflammatory cells mild fibrosis and part of the time cholestasis. In stage II the inflammatory reaction decreases the number of bile ducts is reduced and small bile ductules proliferate. In stage III which results from progression over months to years there is a decrease in interlobular ducts loss of liver cells and increase in periportal fibrosis leading to a fibrotic network. Stage IV is micronodular or macronodular cirrhosis.

Clinically the disease may begin with symptoms of itching or fatigue. Often it is picked up by an elevated serum alkaline phosphatase on routine screening. Ninety percent of PBC patients are women. Over a period of months to years the disease may progress and produce jaundice. Eventually signs of hepatic failure and of portal hypertension appear. Progression is somewhat variable with some patients dying or requiring transplant in 5 years while others have a more protracted course.

A presumptive diagnosis may be made on the basis of an elevated alkaline phosphatase usually in a woman with or without jaundice and a positive AMA test. However since false positives do occur diagnosis should always be confirmed by a liver biopsy showing typical findings of PBC.

Treatment with the bile acid ursodeoxycholic acid ursodiol is useful for symptomatic and sometimes biochemical improvement but has not been shown to alter the progressive course of the disease. No other treatment aside from liver transplantation has been shown to be effective.

Neuman et al. M Neuman et al. J. Gastro. and Hepat. 17 196 202 2002 report that an increase in serum levels of both TNF and TGF in PBC e.g. TNF is 324 pg ml in PBC versus 77 in normal controls . Second they conclude that serum TNF and TGF levels reflect disease severity. Third they find that ursodiol therapy significantly decreases serum TNF and TGF levels in PBC but not to normal levels for example TNF after 2 years of ursodiol therapy was 124 pg ml still significantly higher than control values . Since in animal model work both in the lung and the liver TM is able to essentially normalize TNF and TGF levels in affected organs after injury it is contemplated that TM therapy is beneficial in PBC.

The prevalence of PBC in the U.S. is 65.4 cases for women and 12.1 cases for men 40.2 overall per 100 000 population. At 402 cases 1 million and using a U.S. population of 288 million this calculates out to about 116 000 case prevalence in the U.S. well below the 200 000 figure required to qualify as an orphan disease.

The present invention provides methods to prevent and or treat inflammation and or fibrosis by administering a therapeutically effective amount of at least one copper binding or complexing agent that includes but is not limited to a thiomolybdate to a patient in need thereof. Thiomolybdates are molecules comprising molybdenum and sulfur and include but are not limited to species such as MoS and MoOS2 . These molecules can act as bidentate ligands and can complex copper. Examples of thiomolybdates include but are not limited to tetrathiomolybdate trithiomolybdate dithiomolybdate and monothiomolybdate. Other examples include complex thiomolybdates that include but are not limited to a zinc or an iron between two thiomolybdate groups and that contain thiomolybdate capable of binding or complexing copper. In exemplary complex thiomolybdates the molecule may have more than four thio groups related to more than one molybdenum. In the following description it is understood that tetrathiomolybdate is simply an embodiment of the use of a copper binding or complexing thiomolybdates. It is also understood that any thiomolybdate may be utilized as one or several of different salts such as those described for TM below.

Tetrathiomolybdate TM is a compound made up of molybdenum atom surrounded by four sulfur molecules. Various salts of TM are available salts of TM include but are not limited inorganic cations such as ammonium zinc and iron ions and organic cations such as tetraethyl tetrapropyl and choline ions. Different salts have differing properties of solubility in water and ingestible solvents such as alcohol stability upon storage alone or in formulations bioavailability to a patient and toxicity to a patient. Thus depending upon the use and formulation any particular salt is selected to maximize solubility in water or a solvent miscible with water and which can be tolerated by a patient such as alcohol to maximize stability upon storage as for example as the compound or as part of a formulation to minimize toxicity to a patient and to maximize bioavailability after administration to a patient.

In some embodiments the salt of TM is an ammonium salt. TM as the ammonium salt can be purchased from Aldrich Chemical Company catalog number W 180 0 Milwaukee Wis. available in one kilogram bulk lots as a black powder that is moderately water soluble yielding a bright red solution these preparations are also certified pure for human use. The ammonium salt of TM has one undesirable property that of mild air instability. Thus the bulk drug should be stored in the absence of oxygen or the oxygen will gradually exchange with the sulfur rendering the drug ineffective over time. The bulk drug is therefore stored under argon. Stability assays developed by the inventors indicate that this drug is stable for several years under argon G J Brewer et al. Arch. Neurol. 48 1 42 47 1991 . Capsules can be filled by hand and the drug is stable in capsules for several months at room temperature.

Alternatively TM which is generally synthesized as the ammonium salt may be more stable under air as a different salt. Thus other salts have been prepared and evaluated for solubility stability and anticopper activity. In other embodiments the salt tetrapropyl tetrathiomolybdate TPTM has met all desired properties. In other embodiments the salt choline TM has suitable desirable properties. In yet other embodiments the salt tetraethyl TM has suitable properties. These exemplary salts of TM have suitable solubility in water and behave similarly to ammonium salt of TM in in vitro copper complexing studies.

Other pharmaceutically acceptable salts include but are not limited to include salts formed with inorganic acids such as for example hydrochloric or phosphoric acids or such organic acids as acetic oxalic tartaric mandelic and the like. Salts can also be derived from inorganic bases such as for example sodium potassium ammonium calcium or ferric hydroxides and such organic bases as isopropylamine trimethylamine histidine procaine and the like.

Although it is not necessary to understand the underlying mechanism to practice the invention and the invention is not intended to be so limited it is believed that TM acts by forming a tripartite complex with copper and protein Mills et al. J. Inorg. Biochem. 14 189 1981 Mills et al. J. Inorg. Biochem. 14 163 1981 and Bremner et al. J. Inorg. Biochem. 16 109 1982 . It is further believed that TM has two mechanisms of action. Given with meals it complexes both copper in food and endogenously secreted copper with itself and food protein and prevents the absorption of copper. Patients can be put into an immediate negative copper balance with TM by administering it with meals. Given between meals the TM is absorbed into the bloodstream and complexes serum copper with itself and albumin rapidly rendering the copper unavailable for cellular uptake. Since free copper in organs is in equilibrium with free copper in blood free copper in the organs will quickly be reduced to very low levels if the blood copper is bound. This complex is cleared through the kidney and the liver. No matter what its mechanism of action is TM is a potent and rapidly acting anticopper agent. It is also contemplated that other thiomolybdates complex copper through similar though not necessarily identical mechanisms. In some hypotheses some thiomolybdates directly bind copper. In yet other hypotheses a tripartite copper thiomolybdate protein complex is degraded in the body but the thiomolybdate still results in lowering endogenous copper levels. For example trithiomolybdate dithiomolybdate and monothiomolybdate compounds like tetrathiomolybdate are believed to form a tripartite complex with copper and protein that renders the copper unavailable and eventually leads to clearance of the copper complex.

The only known toxicity of TM discovered in animal studies is through its anticopper effects. Animals given TM in sufficient quantity to produce severe copper deficiency suffer from a variety of copper deficiency related problems including anemia Mills et al. J. Inorg. Biochem. 14 163 1981 and Bremner et al. J. Inorg. Biochem. 16 109 1982 . However none of these occur if the animal is copper supplemented Mills et al. J. Inorg. Biochem. 14 189 1981 or maintained at a moderate copper level. Tetrathiomolybdate TM is a drug that the inventors have developed as an orphan therapy for Wilson s disease as described further below. The drug does an excellent job of gaining quick control over copper toxicity and preventing the neurological worsening that occurs 50 of the time during initial treatment with a commonly used drug for Wilson s disease penicillamine Brewer et al. Arch. Neurol. 48 1 42 47 1991 Brewer et al. Arch. Neurol. 51 6 545 554 1994 and Brewer et al. Arch. Neurol. 53 1017 1025 1996 . So far the inventors have treated 79 Wilson s disease patients with TM generally for an eight week period. TM thus fills a very important niche in the initial treatment of Wilson s disease. The Wilson s disease work has provided extensive experience with TM therapy in the human and provides documentation of TM s extremely low level of toxicity in humans.

In the studies of treating human patients with Wilson s disease studies one side effect occasionally observed is a reversible anemia due to TM s anticopper effects. Given in too high a dose TM renders the bone marrow severely or totally copper deficient. Since copper is required for erythropoiesis an anemia develops. That anemia is rapidly reversible by simply stopping TM. In the Wilson s disease studies this over treatment effect of TM has been diminished by simply reducing the dose to 60 mg per day from the standard 120 mg per day. A second side effect seen during treatment with TM of Wilson s disease but not in treatment of cancer is a mild increase in serum transaminase levels Wilson s patients already have liver disease . This mild increase is diminished or removed by reducing the dose of TM. In humans without Wilson s disease such as patients with inflammatory and or fibrotic diseases a level of mild copper deficiency at a pre anemia state can be established simply by carefully monitoring ceruloplasmin Cp levels during TM therapy. The level of ceruloplasmin is reduced to and maintained at a targeted level in some embodiments this targeted level is between about 5 and 15 mg dl.

TM is eventually metabolized to elemental molybdenum Mo so the potential toxicity of Mo has to be considered. However it turns out that Mo is quite innocuous at the levels produced from breakdown of TM used at the therapeutic regimes described herein. In one example up to 50 mg of Mo day is administered for two weeks then no more than about 25 mg day is administered for maintenance. High doses of 350 to 1400 mg day of Mo were previously used for 4 11 months in patients with Wilson s disease without toxicity Bickel et al. Quart. J. Med. 50 527 1957 . Thus because about 37 of TM by weight is Mo the dose range of 25 50 mg day poses no predictable problems and should be entirely safe.

The mechanism of action of TM is to lower systemic or endogenous copper levels. Copper status is evaluated by measuring the level of ceruloplasmin a copper containing serum protein secreted by the liver as the amount of ceruloplasmin is dependent upon copper availability. Measuring total serum copper is not a good indicator for evaluating copper status because the TM complex with copper accumulates in the blood before it is cleared from the body thus elevating serum copper in spite of reduced copper availability. Thus the serum ceruloplasmin which is directly dependent upon liver copper status is an accurate indicator of copper status or availability in preferred embodiments.

In the present invention it is initially contemplated that a method to treat inflammation and or fibrosis comprises administration of at least one copper binding or complexing agent which include but are not limited to thiomolybdates of which TM is an example in this method treatment is accomplished by administering a single copper binding or complexing agent. It is also contemplated that a combination of more than one copper binding or complexing agent may be administered to a patient the different agents are chosen from different thiomolybdates different salts of different thiomolybdates other copper binding or complexing agents or any combination thereof. Thus in some embodiments the agents comprise a combination of at least two different thiomolybdates such as a tetrathiomolybdate and a trithiomolybdate in other embodiments the agents comprise a combination of at least one thiomolybdate and at least one other copper binding or complexing agents. In yet other embodiments the agents comprise a combination of at least two different salts of a single thiomolybdate such as a tetraethyl and a tetrapropyl tetrathiomolybdate in yet other embodiments the agents comprise a combination of at least two different thiomolybdates of which at least one thiomolybdate comprises at least two different salts in yet other embodiments the agents comprise a combination of at least one thiomolybdate which comprises a combination of at least two different salts and at least one other copper binding or complexing agent.

Moreover it is also contemplated that the methods of the present invention may be combined with other methods generally employed in the treatment of the particular disease or disorder that the patient exhibits. This is particularly true for treatment of diseases for which decreasing copper levels ameliorates does not eradicate the disease in those cases it may be advantageous to use additional compounds which eradicate the disease. In other cases it may be useful to administer drugs in addition to TM in order to obtain additive or synergistic effects. For example in connection with inflammation the methods of the present invention include classical or new approaches in treating and or preventing inflammation. Thus in some embodiments the present invention provides a method of treating and or preventing inflammation comprising administering at least one copper binding or complexing agent as described above to a patient in need thereof and administering at least one other known or discovered antiflammatory drug known antiflammatory drugs include but are not limited to steroids NSAIDS non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs and chemotherapeutic agents as are used in some auto immune diseases. In other examples in connection with fibrosis the methods of the present invention include classical or new approaches in treating and or preventing fibrosis. Thus in some embodiments the present invention provides a method of treating and or preventing fibrosis comprising administering at least one copper binding or complexing agent as described above to a patient in need thereof and administering at least one other known or discovered anti fibrotic drugs anti fibrotic drugs include but are not limited to antibodies or antisense agents directed to specific cytokines or to their receptors as well as to other molecules which enhance fibrosis. In these embodiments it is contemplated that the administration of other anti inflammatory and or anti fibrotic drugs are not known to be detrimental in themselves and that administration of other anti inflammatory and or anti fibrotic drug do not substantially counteract the effectiveness of the endogenous copper lowering therapy by administering copper binding or complexing agents. By substantially counteracting the effectiveness of the endogenous copper lowering therapy it is meant that the combined therapy lowers endogenous copper sufficiently to observe an amelioration of at least one symptom of a disease or condition. In the embodiments in which at least one additional anti inflammatory and or anti fibrotic drug is administered in combination with the administration of a copper binding or complexing agent there is no requirement for the combined results to be additive of the effects observed when each treatment is conducted separately although this is evidently desirable and there is no particular requirement for the combined treatment to exhibit synergistic effects although this is certainly possible and advantageous. It is also contemplated that the administration of the different agents or drugs occurs simultaneously as for example administering the combination of agents and drugs at the same times and or at different times during the course of therapy any combination of administration is contemplated.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention will generally comprise an effective amount of an agent for use in the present invention such as copper binding or complexing thiomolybdates of which tetrathiomolybdate is an example dissolved or dispersed in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or aqueous medium.

In preferred embodiments of the present invention TM is administered orally. Oral administration is effected by a number of means such as by feeding tubes for administration into the gastrointestinal track and preferably the duodenum or by tablets or powders or solutions for administration by mouth. A feeding tube may be preferred for an acute disease whereas administration by mouth may be preferred for chronic diseases and or for maintenance once an appropriate level of copper has been attained. Oral pharmaceutical formulations include but are not limited to tablets or other solids time release capsules liposomal forms and the like. Other pharmaceutical formulations may also be used dependent on the condition to be treated.

As described in detail herein it is contemplated that certain benefits will result from the manipulation of the agents for use in the present invention such as copper binding or complexing thiomolybdates to provide them with a longer in vivo half life. Slow release formulations are generally designed to give a constant drug level over an extended period. Increasing the half life of a drug such as agents for use in the present invention such as copper binding or complexing thiomolybdates is intended to result in high plasma levels of TM upon administration which levels are maintained for a longer time but which levels generally decay depending on the pharmacokinetics of the construct. Slow release formulations of the instant compositions and combinations thereof are contemplated for some uses in the present invention.

Appropriate solutions of the agents for use in the present invention such as copper binding or complexing thiomolybdates of which tetrathiomolybdate is an example pharmaceutical forms suitable for administration compositions comprising the agents formulations with the agents and carriers may be similar to those described below.

In addition to the compounds formulated for parenteral administration the agents for use in the present invention such as copper binding or complexing thiomolybdates may be formulated for parenteral administration e.g. formulated for injection via the intravenous intramuscular sub cutaneous or other such routes including direct instillation into a disease site. The preparation of an aqueous composition that contains one or more agents for use in the present invention such as copper binding or complexing thiomolybdates as an active ingredient will be known to those of skill in the art in light of the present disclosure. Typically such compositions can be prepared as injectables either as liquid solutions or suspensions solid forms suitable for using to prepare solutions or suspensions upon the addition of a liquid prior to injection can also be prepared and the preparations can also be emulsified.

Solutions of the active compounds as freebase or pharmacologically acceptable salts can be prepared in water suitably mixed with a surfactant such as hydroxypropylcellulose. Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol liquid polyethylene glycols and mixtures thereof and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use these preparations contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms.

The pharmaceutical forms suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions or dispersions formulations including sesame oil peanut oil or aqueous propylene glycol and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersions. In all cases the form should be sterile and should be fluid to the extent that easy flow through a syringe exists. It should be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and must be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi.

Compositions comprising the agents for use in the present invention such as copper binding or complexing thiomolybdates can be formulated into a composition in a neutral or salt form. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts have been described above.

The carrier can also be a solvent or dispersion medium containing for example water ethanol polyol for example glycerol propylene glycol and liquid polyethylene glycol and the like suitable mixtures thereof and vegetable oils. Proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of a coating such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants. Prevention of the contamination with microorganisms can be obtained by various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid thimerosal and the like. In many cases it may be desirable to include isotonic agents for example sugars or sodium chloride. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by the use in the compositions of agents delaying absorption for example aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

Sterile injectable solutions are prepared by incorporating the active compounds in the required amount in the appropriate solvent followed by filtered sterilization. Generally dispersions are prepared by incorporating the various sterilized active ingredients into a sterile vehicle which contains the basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum drying and freeze drying techniques which yield a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile filtered solution thereof.

Upon formulation solutions will be administered in a manner compatible with the dosage formulation and in such amount as is therapeutically effective. Formulations are easily administered in a variety of dosage forms such as the type of injectable solutions described above but drug release capsules and the like can also be employed.

Suitable pharmaceutical compositions in accordance with the invention will generally include an amount of one or more of the agents for use in the present invention such as copper binding or complexing thiomolybdates admixed with an acceptable pharmaceutical diluent or excipient such as a sterile aqueous solution to give a range of final concentrations depending on the intended use. The techniques of preparation are generally well known in the art as exemplified by Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 16th Ed. Mack Publishing Company 1980 incorporated herein by reference. It should be appreciated that endotoxin contamination should be kept minimally at a safe level for example less that 0.5 ng mg protein. Moreover for human administration preparations should meet sterility pyrogenicity general safety and purity standards as required by FDA Office of Biological Standards.

The therapeutically effective doses are readily determinable using an animal model as shown in the studies detailed herein. Experimental animals with induced inflammatory and or fibrotic diseases are frequently used to optimize appropriate therapeutic doses prior to translating to a clinical environment. Such models are known to be very reliable in predicting effective anti inflammatory or anti fibrotic strategies. For example bleomycin mice such as described in Example 1 are appropriate models of pulmonary fibrosis in humans. One can use such art accepted mouse models to determine working ranges of agents for use in the present invention such as copper binding or complexing thiomolybdates that give beneficial anti inflammatory and or anti fibrotic effects with minimal toxicity.

The present invention also provides therapeutic kits comprising agents for use in the present invention which bind or complex copper such as thiomolybdates and of which tetrathiomolybdate is an example as described herein. Such kits generally comprise in suitable container means a pharmaceutically acceptable formulation of at least one agent for use in the present invention such as copper binding or complexing thiomolybdates in accordance with the invention. The kits may also comprise other pharmaceutically acceptable formulations such as any one or more of a range of anti inflammatory and or anti fibrotic drugs.

The kits may have a single container means comprising an agent that binds or complexes copper such as a thiomolybdate with or without any additional components or they may have distinct container means for each desired agent. In some embodiments kits of the present invention comprise an agent for use in the present invention such as copper binding or complexing thiomolybdates packaged in a kit for use in combination with the co administration of a second agent such as an anti inflammatory or anti fibrotic agent as described above. In such kits the components may be pre complexed either in a molar equivalent combination or with one component in excess of the other or each of the components of the kit may be maintained separately within distinct containers prior to administration to a patient.

When the components of the kit are provided in one or more liquid solutions the liquid solution is generally an aqueous solution with a sterile aqueous solution being particularly preferred. However the components of the kit may be provided as dried powder s . When reagents or components are provided as a dry powder the powder can be reconstituted by the addition of a suitable solvent. It is envisioned that the solvent may also be provided in another container means. One of the components of the kit may be provided in capsules for oral administration.

The container means of the kit will generally include at least one vial test tube flask bottle syringe or other container means into which an agent for use in the present invention such as copper binding or complexing thiomolybdates and any other desired agent may be placed and preferably suitably aliquoted. Where additional components are included the kit will also generally include a second vial or other container into which these additional components are placed enabling the administration of separated designed doses. The kits may also comprise a second and or third container means for containing a sterile pharmaceutically acceptable buffer or other diluent.

The kits may also comprise a means by which to administer an agent for use in the present invention such as copper binding or complexing thiomolybdates to an animal or human patient e.g. one or more needles or syringes or even an eye dropper pipette or other such like apparatus from which the formulation may be injected into the animal or applied to a feeding tube or ingested orally. The kits of the present invention will also typically include a means for containing the vials or such like and other component in close confinement for commercial sale such as e.g. injection or blow molded plastic containers into which the desired vials and other apparatus are placed and retained.

For human use in preferred embodiments the kits further comprise appropriate instructions and labels e.g. as required by the FDA for use of copper binding or complexing agents as described herein.

The compositions and methods provided by this invention are broadly applicable to the treatment of any inflammatory and or fibrotic disease which includes response to injury. In some embodiments the inflammatory and or fibrotic disease is a result of the activation or over activation of transforming growth factor beta TGF . Exemplary fibrotic diseases that may be treated by a method of the present invention include but are not limited to pulmonary disease including pulmonary fibrosis and acute respiratory distress syndrome liver disease including liver cirrhosis and hepatitis C kidney disease including renal interstitial fibrosis scleroderma cystic fibrosis pancreatic fibrosis keloid secondary fibrosis in the gastrointestinal tract hypertrophic burn scars myocardial fibrosis Alzheimer s disease retinal detachment inflammation and or fibrosis resulting after surgery and graft versus host and host versus graft rejections.

Currently most of these diseases do not have an effective treatment. However even if another treatment is perceived to exist in connection with a certain category of patients or for a certain type of disease the perceived treatment does not in any way negate the basic utility of the methods of the present invention in connection with the treatments of all patients having an inflammatory and or fibrotic disease.

It is contemplated that the methods of the present invention are widely or entirely applicable to the treatment of all inflammatory and or fibrotic diseases irrespective of the particular phenotype or localization of the inflammation or fibroses themselves. However the particular type of disease may be relevant to the use of the methods of the present invention in combination with secondary therapeutic agents as described above.

It is further contemplated that certain types of inflammatory and or fibrotic diseases may be more amenable to treatment with a method of the present invention. Thus some diseases may respond to treatment with less effect on inflammation and or fibrosis. Although it is not necessary to understand the underlying mechanism and the invention is not intended to be limited to any particular mechanism it is contemplated that this might be due to slight differences in the cytokine and other pathogenic mechanisms from one disease to another. This phenomena is observed in experimental animals and may occur in human treatments. Such considerations are taken into account in conducting both the pre clinical studies in experimental animals and in optimizing the doses for use in treating any particular patient or groups of patients.

There are realistic objectives that may be used as a guideline in connection with pre clinical testing before proceeding to clinical treatment. However this is generally more a matter of cost effectiveness than overall usefulness and is a means for selecting the most advantageous compounds and doses. In regard to their basic utility any composition or combination comprising a copper binding or complexing agent such as thiomolybdate that results in any consistent anti inflammatory and or anti fibrotic effects defines a useful compound. Even in those circumstances where the anti inflammatory and or anti fibrotic effects are towards the low end of the range it may be that the therapy of the present invention is as or even more effective than other known therapies in the context of particular anti inflammatory and or anti fibrotic targets and especially where other factors such as desirable or undesirable side effects or quality of life may be important. Even if it becomes evident to the clinician that particular anti inflammatory and or anti fibrotic diseases cannot be effectively treated in the intermediate or long term it does not negate the utility of the therapy of the present invention particularly where it is about as effective as other known strategies or where it is effective after other conventional therapies have failed. It is not predicted that resistance to therapy of the present invention can develop.

In the present invention an agent that binds or complexes copper such as a thiomolybdate is administered in a therapeutically effective amount to a patient suffering from an inflammatory and or fibrotic disease. The term therapeutically effective amount is a functional term referring to an amount of material needed to make a qualitative or quantitative change in a clinically measured parameter for a particular subject. For example prior to administration the subject may exhibit measurable symptoms of disease for example pulmonary congestion and or difficulty breathing evidence of hepatitis or decrease in liver function evidence or kidney inflammation or decrease in kidney function etc which upon administration of a therapeutically effective amount the measurable symptom is found to change over time. A therapeutically relevant effect relieves to some extent one or more symptoms of a disease or condition or returns to normal either partially or completely one or more physiological or biochemical parameters associated with or causative of the disease.

In particular the term refers to an amount of an agent that binds or complexes copper such as thiomolybdate effective to treat an inflammatory and or fibrotic disease upon administration to a patient suffering from such a disease. Treatment includes but is not limited to preventing the onset or shortening the course or severity of or reversing the effects of inflammatory and or fibrotic disease thus a therapeutically effective amount includes a prophylactically effective amount. Such effects are achieved while exhibiting negligible or manageable adverse side effects on normal healthy tissues of the patient. Thus the therapeutically effective amount can vary from patient to patient depending upon a number of factors including but not limited to the type of disease the extent of the disease and the size of the patient.

An objective of the therapeutic regimes of the present invention is to reduce the endogenous copper level to a target level and then to maintain that level for a period of time sufficient to prevent the onset or to shorten the course or severity of or to reverse the effects of inflammatory and or fibrotic disease. The period of time sufficient to both reduce endogenous copper level and to maintain it to prevent the onset or to shorten the course or severity of or to reverse the effects of inflammatory and or fibrotic disease is referred to as a therapeutically effective time . As described earlier the level of endogenous copper can be monitored by measuring blood ceruloplasmin Cp levels. In some embodiments the levels of blood ceruloplasmin decrease by 10 in other embodiments these levels decrease by about 25 in yet other embodiments these levels decrease by about 50 in still other embodiments these levels decrease by about 90 . Alternatively ceruloplasmin levels decrease to between about 5 to 15 mg dl. The time period in which to reduce endogenous copper levels will vary depending upon the disease and the patient s general health and condition typically this time depends upon the amount of copper binding agent per dose and frequency of dose administration per treatment period. Generally for acute diseases such as ARDS it is desirable to decrease endogenous copper levels as rapidly as possible this is because patients are at risk of dying quickly and it is therefore desirable to initiate quick intervention. Under these circumstances it is preferable to use initially a much higher loading dose of a copper binding or complexing agent than might be used for a chronic disease or condition. For both acute and chronic diseases initial doses of copper binding or complexing agents might be higher and administered more frequently in order to fairly rapidly decrease endogenous copper to the target levels these doses are referred to as induction doses. Subsequent doses of copper binding or complexing agents to maintain endogenous copper at the target level may be lower and administered less frequently these doses are referred to as maintenance doses.

In designing appropriate doses of the agents that bind or complex copper such as thiomolybdate and combinations therewith and or that effectively lower endogenous copper one may readily extrapolate from animal studies as for example as described further below in order to arrive at appropriate doses for clinical administration. To achieve this conversion one would account for the mass of the agents administered per unit mass of the experimental animal and yet account for the differences in the body surface area between the experimental animal and the human patient. All such calculations are well known and routine to those of ordinary skill in the art. Accordingly using the information provided herein it is contemplated that useful daily doses of the agents that bind or complex copper such as thiomolybdate and or that effectively lower endogenous copper for use in human administration would be between about 20 mg and about 200 mg per patient per day. Notwithstanding this stated range it is contemplated that given the parameters and guidance described above further variations in the active or optimal ranges are encompassed within the present invention.

Induction doses contemplated are generally about 180 mg per day. Daily maintenance doses contemplated are generally between about 20 mg and about 180 mg between about 25 and about 160 mg between about 50 and about 150 mg between about 30 and about 125 mg between about 40 mg and about 100 mg between about 35 and about 80 mg between about 20 and about 65 mg between about 30 mg and about 50 mg about 40 mg or in any particular range using any of the foregoing recited exemplary doses or any value intermediate between the particular stated ranges. Although daily doses in and around about 60 mg to about 120 mg or in and around about 20 to about 180 mg are typical it is contemplated that lower doses may be more appropriate in combination with other agents or under conditions of maintenance and that high doses can still be tolerated particularly given the fact that the agents that bind or complex copper such as a thiomolybdate and or that effectively lower endogenous copper for use in the invention are not themselves cytotoxic. Even if certain adverse side effects do occur this should not necessarily result in toxicity that cannot be counteracted by normal homeostatic mechanisms which is believed to lessen the chances of significant toxicity to healthy tissues.

The values described above can also be expressed in terms of mg kg of body weight. As described above the biologically or therapeutically effective amount can vary depending upon the size of the animal or human patient. However taking the average weight of a human male as about 70 kg the biologically or therapeutically effective amount of the agent that binds or complexes copper such as a thiomolybdate for an average human male would be between about 0.3 mg kg and about 3 mg kg.

Another objective of the therapeutic regimes of the present invention is generally to produce the maximum anti inflammatory and or anti fibrotic effects while keeping the dose below the levels associated with unacceptable toxicity. However as noted above in acute diseases or conditions it may be necessary to administer initial high doses to rapidly decrease endogenous copper levels. In addition to varying the dose itself the administration regimen can also be adapted to optimize the treatment strategy. A currently preferred maintenance treatment strategy is to administer between about 20 mg and about 200 mg of the agents that bind or complex copper such as a thiomolybdate or combination thereof or which effectively lower endogenous copper from about 3 to about 6 or more times per day approximately half of the doses with meals and approximately half of the doses between meals. In administering the particular doses themselves one would preferably provide a pharmaceutically acceptable composition to the patient systemically. Oral administration is generally preferred. An exemplary induction dosage regime for a patient suffering from a chronic inflammatory and or fibrotic disease is about 40 mg three times daily with meals and about 60 mg at bedtime. Exemplary maintenance dosage regimes for a patient suffering from a chronic inflammatory and or fibrotic disease is about 20 to 180 mg total per day taken approximately proportionately as indicated for the exemplary induction dosage regime or taken at fewer times per day for example with breakfast and with dinner.

The efficacy and safety of tetrathiomolybdate to lower endogenous copper levels in both animal and human patients has been well documented in its use to treat Wilsons s disease which is characterized by an increase in endogenous levels of copper generally to toxic levels. A description of Wilson s disease previous therapy regimes the discovery of tetrathiomolybdate it s toxicity and efficacy both alone and in comparison to other anti copper agents and its utility in treating Wilson s disease are provided below as part of the description of the methods of the present invention.

Wilson s disease is an autosomal recessive disorder of copper metabolism. In this disorder the excretion of copper into the bile appears to be defective and there is reduced hepatic incorporation of copper into ceruloplasmin leading to an accumulation of toxic levels of copper in plasma and most body tissues. Wilson s disease usually leads to hepatic and or neurologic dysfunction.

The therapy of Wilson s disease can be divided into two broad categories G J Brewer and Yuzbasiyan Gurkan Medicine 71 3 139 164 1992 and G J Brewer Wilson s Disease A Clinician s Guide to Recognition Diagnosis and Management Kluwer Academic Publishers Boston 2001 . These two categories are initial therapy in acutely ill patients and maintenance therapy. Initial therapy is that period of time during which a newly presenting patient is still suffering from acute copper toxicity generally the first few weeks to months of therapy. Maintenance therapy is essentially the rest of the patient s life or that period of time after the copper levels have been brought down to a subtoxic threshold and the patient is on therapy simply to prevent the recurrence of copper accumulation and copper toxicity.

For the maintenance therapy of Wilson s disease three drugs were previously used. These include the oldest available drug penicillamine Walshe Am. J. Med. 21 487 1956 a drug called trien or trientine which was developed for patients who are intolerant of penicillamine Walshe Lancet 1 643 647 1982 and zinc acetate G J Brewer and Yuzbasiyan Gurkan Medicine 71 3 139 164 1992 Brewer and Yuzbasiyan Gurkan in Textbook of Clinical Neruopharmacology and Therapeutics 2Edition Klawans Goetz Tanner eds Raven Press New York pp. 191 205 1992 G J Brewer et al. Annals. Int. Med. 99 314 320 1983 Hill et al. Hepatology 7 522 528 1987 Hill et al. Am. J. Med. Sci. 12 344 1986 Brewer et al. 1987 J. Lab. Clin. Med. 109 526 531 Brewer et al. 1987 Proc. Soc. Exper. Biol. Med. 7 446 455 Brewer et al. 1987 Sem. Neurol. 7 209 220 Yuzbasiyan Gurkan et al. 1989 J. Lab. Clin. Med. 114 520 526 Brewer et al. 1989 J. Lab. Clin. Med. 114 633 638 Lee et al. 1989 J. Lab. Clin. Med. 114 639 645 Brewer et al. 1990 J. Trace Elem. Exp. Med. 3 227 234 Brewer et al. 1991 J. Lab. Clin. Med. 118 466 470 Brewer and Yuzbasiyan Gurkan 1989 Dig. Dis. 7 4 178 1923 Brewer et al. 1992 JAVMA 201 564 568 G J Brewer et al. J. Vet. Int. Med. 6 41 43 1992 Yuzbasiyan Gurkan et al. J. Lab. Clin. Med. 120 380 386 1992 Brewer et al. J. Amer. Coll. Nut. 12 1 26 30 1993 G J Brewer et al. Amer. J. Med. Sci. 305 4 199 202 1993 In Essential and Toxic Trace Elements in Human Health and Disease An Update Prasad ed Allan R. Liss New York PCBR 380 129 145 G J Brewer et al. J. Lab. Clin. Med. 123 849 858 1993 G J Brewer Nutrition and the MD 19 12 1993 Hoogenraad et al. Lancet 2 1262 1263 1978 Hoogenraad et al. Eur. Neurol. 18 205 211 1979 Hoogenraad et al. J. Neurol. Sci. 77 137 146 1987 . In the past it was generally believed that zinc provided an effective maintenance therapy with a very low level of toxicity.

About two thirds of patients who present with Wilson s disease present with symptoms referable to the brain G J Brewer et al. JAMA 201 564 568 1992 Scheinberg and Sternlieb In Major Problems in Internal Medicine Vol. XXIII W.B. Saunders Company Philadelphia 1984 and Danks In Metabolic Basis of Inherited Diseased Vol. I Sixth Ed. Scriver Beaudet. Sly Valle eds McGraw Hill New York pp. 1411 1431 1989 and G J Brewer Wilson s Disease A Clinician s Guide to Recognition Diagnosis and Management Kluwer Academic Publishers Boston 2001 . These can be neurologic symptoms or symptoms of psychiatric nature in the beginning with neurologic symptoms later. Therapy for these patients was not nearly as straightforward as it was for maintenance phase patients. It was found that approximately 50 of these patients who were treated with penicillamine became worse rather than better G J Brewer et al. Arch. Neurol. 44 490 494 1987 . Half of these patients who worsen or about 25 of the original sample never recovered to their pre penicillamine baseline. In other words penicillamine induced additional irreversible damage.

The mechanisms underlying this worsening are not known with certainty although it is likely that the mobilization of hepatic copper by the drug further elevates brain copper. The inventors have shown that this mechanism can occur in a rat model. Regardless of the mechanism neurologically presenting patients very often ended up much worse after being treated initially with penicillamine. In fact even presymptomatic patients could develop neurologic disease after being initiated on penicillamine Glass et al. Arch. Neurol. 47 595 596 1990 and G J Brewer et al. Arch. Neurol. 51 304 305 1994 . It was not known whether trientine exhibits the phenomenon of neurological worsening when used as initial therapy because it has not been used very much in this kind of situation. It would not be surprising if trientine exhibited this problem to some degree because its mechanism of action is believed to be similar to that of penicillamine however it is anticipated that the problematic effects of trientine would be less serious as its effects on copper seem to be somewhat gentler.

Zinc is not an ideal agent for the initial treatment for this type of patient. Zinc has a relatively slow onset of action and produces only a modest negative copper balance. Thus during the several months required for zinc to bring copper down to a subtoxic threshold patients may be at risk for further copper toxicity and worsening of their disease.

The discovery of TM began with observations of cattle and sheep which developed copper deficiency when grazing on pasturages with high molybdenum Mo content Ferguson et al. J. Agr. Sci. 33 44 1943 Dick and Bull Aust. Vet. J. 21 70 1945 Miller and Engel Fed. Proc. 19 666 1960 . It was established that administration of supplementary Mo impaired copper metabolism in ruminants Macilese Ammerman et al. J. Nutr. 99 177 1969 however Mo had little effect on non ruminant animals such as rats Mills et al. J. Nut. 65 129 1958 Cox et al. J. Nutr. 70 63 1960 . The answer to the different effects of Mo came from observations which suggested that the administered Mo was converted to thiomolybdates in the rumen as a result of the high sulfide metabolism there and that thiomolybdates were the active anti copper agents Dick et al. J. Agri. Sci. 85 567 1975 . This theory was confirmed when thiomolybdate compounds were given to rats and produced anti copper effects Mills et al. J. Inorg. Biochem. 14 189 1981 Mills et al. J. Inorg. Biochem. 14 163 1981 and Bremner et al. J. Inorg. Biochem. 16 109 1982 . The tetra substituted compound tetrathiomolybdate or TM appeared to be the most potent of the thiomolybdates initially tested.

The anti copper effects TM are believed to be based upon two modes of action of TM Mills et al. J. Inorg. Biochem. 14 189 1981 and Mills et al. J. Inorg. Biochem. 14 163 1981 Bremner et al. J. Inorg. Biochem. 16 109 1982 and Gooneratne et al. Br. J. Nutr. 46 469 1981 . One mechanism operates in the gastrointestinal or GI tract and the other in the blood. In the GI tract TM forms complexes with copper and food proteins or other proteins that are not absorbed. This absorption block involves not only food copper but also the rather considerable amount of endogenously secreted copper in saliva gastric juice and other GI tract secretions Allen and Solomons In Absorption And Malabsorption Of Mineral Nutrients Solomons and Rosenberg Eds. Alan R. Liss Inc. New York 12 206 1984 . Although both TM and zinc are apparently effective in the GI tract TM offers several advantages over zinc. One advantage is that TM is a more effective blocker of copper absorption than zinc because zinc acts only in those areas of the small intestine where metallothionein can be induced Yuzbasiyan Gurkan et al. J. Lab. Clin. Med. 120 380 386 1992 where in contrast TM is effective the entire length of the GI tract. Another advantage of TM over zinc is that TM acts immediately therefore it does not have a lag period required for the induction of metallothionein.

The second mode of action of TM is in the blood. TM given at times away from meals is relatively well absorbed into the blood. There it forms complexes with copper and albumin rendering the complexed copper unavailable for cellular uptake Gooneratne et al. Br. J. Nutr. 46 469 1981 . The normal plasma copper is in two primary pools. Most of the plasma copper in normal persons is part of the ceruloplasmin molecule. This copper is essentially unavailable for ready exchange with cells and is considered non toxic. The other pool of copper is more loosely bound to albumin and small molecules such as amino acids. This pool of copper is greatly expanded during acute copper toxicity in Wilson s disease and is readily available for cellular uptake and is therefore potentially toxic Scheinberg and Sternlieb 1984 In Major Problems In Internal Medicine Vol. XXIII Saunders Company Philadelphia . When TM enters the blood it complexes with this latter copper and renders it like the ceruloplasmin copper unavailable for cellular uptake and for further toxicity.

Very good evidence exists that TM complexed copper is unavailable for cellular uptake. The most direct evidence is that in sheep levels of copper in the plasma which would normally be high enough to produce hemolytic anemia do not do so in the presence of TM Gooneratne et al. Br. J. Nutr. 46 469 1.981 . It was shown that the TM bound copper does not permeate the erythrocyte. This is direct evidence that TM complexed copper does not permeate cells.

Considerable work on the potential toxicity of TM has been carried out in rats Mills et al. J. Inorg. Biochem. 14 189 1981 and Bremner et al. J. Inorg. Biochem. 16 109 1982 . Approximately 6 mg of TM per kilogram of diet shows substantial effects on copper levels in rats including a reduction of plasma ceruloplasmin and a reduction in liver and kidney copper. At approximately 12 mg of TM all of these changes were increased and in addition liver Mo was increased. Mild anemia was present and skeletal lesions were present in one of six animals. At approximately 18 mg of TM the anemia was severe. Melanogenesis of hair was impaired diarrhea was present growth rate was markedly impaired and all animals had skeletal lesions characterized by dysplasia in the epiphyseal cartilage cells of long bones resorption of trabecular bone and structural changes in ligaments.

It was later shown that all of the toxic effects of TM up to 36 mg of TM per kilogram of diet could be prevented by oral supplementation with copper or with intraperitoneal injection of copper Mills et al. J. Inorg. Biochem. 14 163 1981 . Thus it appears that all the toxic lesions induced by TM are due to copper deficiency induced by the TM. In support of this hypothesis almost all of the above lesions are induced by dietary copper deficiency the two exceptions being the skeletal lesions and the enterocyte mitochondrial damage which leads to diarrhea. The reason that these last two lesions are seen with TM administration but may not be seen in dietary copper deficiency could be related to the severity and the rapidity of the copper deficiency induced by TM. With dietary copper deficiency there is always some contaminating copper available and rapidly dividing cells such as the enterocyte and epiphyseal cells may obtain enough copper to prevent the lesions. The prevention of these two lesions as well as all of the other TM induced lesions by copper supplementation indicates that the lesions are probably due to copper deficiency.

Other publications reported the results of examining gut pathology in rats receiving approximately 18 mg of TM per kilogram of diet Fell et al. J. Corn. Pathol. 89 496 1979 . These rats also received approximately 3 mg of copper per kilogram of diet. In these rats observed gut pathology involving cell apoptosis edema and necrosis was attributed to hypocuprosis although this was not proven. It is probable that a higher copper supplement was required for protection in view of the observations that all such problems were prevented by adequate copper supplementation Mills et al. J. Inorg. Biochem. 14 163 1981 .

Wilson s disease patients have a huge store of excess copper so none of the TM toxicities due to copper deficiency are a risk in these patients. Even in the case of the skeletal and enterocyte lesions since copper administration is protected the Wilson s disease patient with excessive stores of copper should also be protected.

The effect of TM on copper loaded sheep has also been studied Gooneratne et al. Br. J. Nutr. 46 457 1981 . It is well known that sheep are quite susceptible to copper toxicity usually developing hepatic failure and hemolytic anemia. The studies involved loading sheep dietarily with copper to the point of initiation of hepatic damage then giving TM intravenously in doses of 50 or 100 mg 2 weekly for up to 11 weeks. Five of the 26 sheep died during the study. All deaths were attributed to copper toxicosis based on autopsy results. Three of the five deaths occurred in control animals who received copper but not TM. One death occurred after an animal had received only one dose of TM and another in an animal who had received only 4 doses of TM. It is clear that these two animals died from copper toxicity prior to the ability of TM to rescue them. If animals survived the initial onset of copper toxicosis they were protected from further copper toxicity by TM even though in some cases copper administration was continued. These animals tolerated up to 22 injections of TM without clinical problems.

Support for the beneficial effect of administering TM by either intravenous injection Humphries et al. Vet. Record 119 596 598 1986 or by subcutaneous injection Humphries et al. Vet. Record 123 51 53 1988 in protecting sheep against severe hepatic copper toxicity has also been shown. TM not only reduced the amount of hepatic copper but the actual liver damage. TM was also used prophylactically to prevent copper toxicity in commercial sheep flocks. Over 400 animals have been treated with TM with no adverse side effects Humphries et al. Vet. Record 123 51 53 1988 .

Preliminary work also indicated that TM may be dramatically effective against copper toxicity in the LEC rat model Suzuki et al. TOXIC 83 149 1993 . The genetic defect in these rats has been recently shown to be due to a defect in the Wilson s disease gene Wu et al. Nat. Genet. 7 541 1994 . These rats develop severe liver disease and usually die. TM has been very effective in treating these animals in the late stages of their liver disease.

Molybdenum metabolism in sheep has been studied after the intravenous injection of Mo labeled TM Mason et al. J. Inorg. Biochem. 19 153 1983 . There was a rapid disappearance from plasma during the initial 15 minutes and then a slow disappearance with a half time of about 40 h. The TM was transformed step wise to molybdate and over 90 was excreted in urine compared to 5 in feces. The same group published subsequently on Mo and S metabolism after intravenous injection of double labeled TM in sheep Hynes et al. Brit. J. Nutr. 52 149 1984 . Most of the Mo and S were associated initially with albumin. Displaced or unbound TM was rapidly hydrolyzed to molybdate and sulfate. There was no evidence of an irreversible interaction of either S or Mo with copper and plasma despite the appearance of a TCA insoluble copper fraction.

It is clear that in the presence of high levels of copper TM administration results in the accumulation of copper complexed with TM in both the liver and kidneys Jones et al. Res. Vet. Sci. 37 273 1984 and Bremner and Young Br. J. Nutr. 39 325 1978 . However there is no evidence of a storage disease associated with this complex. Current theory holds that the complex is disassociated and that the TM is metabolized to oxymolybdates and excreted Mason et al. J. Inorg. Biochem. 19 153 1983 . The copper then enters other pathways in the liver. In the presence of high levels of metallothionein the copper would most likely be taken up by metallothionein. In the kidneys the evidence is that the copper is simply excreted.

Two cases of reversible bone marrow depression have been reported in patients receiving TM for maintenance therapy Harper and Walshe Br. J. Hematol. 64 851 8 1986 . The inventors have observed reversible anemia in seven patients. These patients had a strong response to therapy and likely ended up with localized bone marrow copper deficiency. Since copper is required for heme synthesis this appears to be a manifestation of over treatment at least as far as the bone marrow is concerned. Since TM is such an effective anticopper agent it would not be unexpected for over treatment to occur during maintenance therapy with TM as was previously observed Harper and Walshe Br. J. Hematol. 64 851 853 1986 .

About 37 of TM is Mo. The normal intake of Mo is about 350 g day Seelig Am. J. Clin. Nutr. 25 1022 1972 or the equivalent amount of Mo that would be in about 1.0 mg of TM. Molybdenum seems to be quite well tolerated by the human. Relatively high doses of 5 20 mg kg day of Mo equivalent to the Mo in 1 4 g of TM were used for 4 11 months in patients with Wilson s disease in a 1957 study without known toxicity Bickel et al Quart. J. Med. 50 527 1957 . However it was not effective because as pointed out earlier TM is the active metabolite and that is formed efficiently from Mo only in ruminants.

Penicillamine is the drug that has been used the most and is the best known. However it should be the last choice for initial treatment of patients suffering from neurological symptoms because of the very high risk of worsening their neurologically symptoms G J Brewer et al. Arch. Neurol. 44 490 494 1987 and G J Brewer et al. Arch. Neurol. 51 304 305 1994 . Another problem with penicillamine is that about a quarter to a third of patients develop an initial hypersensitivity syndrome which requires significant interventions such as temporarily stopping the drug and restarting it at a lower dose usually with concurrent corticosteroid administration. This is a somewhat frightening experience for patients who are already ill and prevents the attending physician in the inventors study from being blinded. Finally there is a long list of other side effects that can occur with penicillamine during the first few weeks of therapy. These include bone marrow depression proteinuria and auto immune disorders.

Zinc was used for the comprehensive treatment of Wilson s disease including initial treatment Hoogenraad et al. Lancet 2 1262 1263 1978 Hoogenraad et al. Eur. Neurol. 18 205 211 1979 and Hoogenraad et al. J. Neurol. Sci. 77 137 146 1987 . However zinc was not ideal for initial therapy by itself because it is rather slow acting. Thus it takes approximately two weeks to achieve intestinal metallothionein induction and a negative copper balance in Wilson s patients Yuzbasiyan Gurkan et al. J. Lab. Clin. Med. 120 380 386 1992 . At the two week point zinc immediately reverses the 0.54 mg daily positive copper balance these patients average but the negative copper balance induced is rather modest averaging 0.35 mg daily negative copper balance G J Brewer et al. J. Trace Elem. Exp. Med. 3 227 234 1990 G J Brewer et al. Amer. J. Med. Sci. 305 4 199 202 1993 . Due to this low rate of copper removal it takes as long as six months of zinc therapy to bring urine copper and nonceruloplasmin plasma copper the potentially toxic copper measured in the blood down to subtoxic levels.

TM is a more effective blocker of copper absorption than zinc since zinc acts only in those areas of the small intestine where metallothionein can be induced. In contrast TM works all up and down the gastrointestinal track. The other advantage of TM over zinc in this setting is that TM acts immediately. It does not have a lag period required for the induction of metallothionein.

Trientine acts by chelation and urinary excretion of copper Walshe Lancet 1 643 647 1982 . A therapeutic dose 1 000 2 000 mg day usually produces only about half as much cupruresis as a similar dose of penicillamine. Nonetheless trientine is capable of an initial production of a several mg negative copper balance much greater than zinc. Typically this 4 5 mg cupruresis decreases during the first few weeks of therapy to a more modest but still substantial 2 3 mg. Ingestion of copper is about 1 mg day with obligatory non urine losses of about 0.5 mg. Thus a cupruresis of 2 3 mg produces a negative copper balance of 1.5 to 2.5 mg day.

Trientine is officially approved for use in patients intolerant of penicillamine therapy. Because of this and because it was introduced much later than penicillamine it has not been used and reported on very extensively. It has not had a formal toxicity study. It appears to have substantially less risk of side effects then penicillamine. An initial hypersensitivity problem has not been reported. It does cause proteinuria after several weeks of use in about 20 of patients. It can also occasionally produce bone marrow depression and autoimmune abnormalities although the latter is usually after prolonged use.

So far trientine has not been reported to cause initial worsening in neurological patients but its sole use in this type of patient is probably very limited. Anecdotally the inventors have received patients in transfer who worsened on penicillamine were switched briefly to trientine and when they became worse or failed to improve were transferred to the inventors for TM therapy. In patients with this history it is impossible to know if trientine played any role in worsening. Theoretically it could because as with penicillamine trientine mobilizes copper producing a higher blood level to achieve urinary excretion. But whether this increased level of blood copper translates into increased brain levels and increased neurotoxicity is unknown.

Over a period of several years the inventors carried out an open label study of the use of TM for initial treatment of neurologically presenting Wilson s disease patients. The inventors also developed both a spectrophotometric and bioassay for the activity of the drug to evaluate its stability and to assure its potency when administered G J Brewer et al. Arch. Neurol. 48 1 42 47 1991 and G J Brewer et al. Arch. Neurol. 51 6 545 554 1994 . As noted above TM is unstable in air and slowly loses potency when exposed to air. This is apparently due to the exchange of oxygen molecules with the sulfur molecules rendering TM inactive.

The results in the first patient studied can be used to illustrate several points. For the first seven days the patient received TM only with meals tid with meals . This produced the immediate negative copper balance one would expect from the first mechanism of action blockade of copper absorption when given with meals . After the first seven days TM was given between meals as well tid with meals and tid between meals . This led to the immediate rise in plasma copper expected from absorption of TM into the blood and formation of a complex of copper TM and albumin. The copper complexed with TM and albumin is unavailable for cellular uptake and this copper is therefore non toxic. There is a 1 1 stoichiometric relationship between molybdenum and copper in this complex. Knowing the molybdenum level in the blood and the ceruloplasmin level ceruloplasmin also contains copper that is non toxic one can calculate how much of the plasma copper is not bound to one or the other. This so called free copper non ceruloplasmin plasma copper is the potentially toxic copper. When reduced to zero the plasma copper molybdenum gap is closed. This took 16 days in the first patient 9 days after adding the between meal doses . Since in the brain and in other organs free copper is in equilibrium with the blood decreasing the blood free copper to a low level begins the process of lowering the brain level of free toxic copper.

The inventors have treated initially 56 Wilson s disease patients with TM all of whom presented with neurological or psychiatric disease in an open label study. These patients were all diagnosed by standard criteria. These patients had a diagnostically elevated hepatic or urine copper usually both. Some of them were treated briefly with other agents prior to this trial. Two patients had psychiatric but not neurological symptoms.

With three exceptions in the earliest part of the study all patients received a dose of 20 mg tid with meals or qid with three meals and a snack. Thus the only difference between a patient receiving 120 mg and 140 mg total dose is that the former was receiving 20 mg tid or 60 mg with meals and the latter was receiving 20 mg qid or 80 mg with meals plus a snack. The rest of the total daily dose was divided up into three equal doses and given between meals.

The total daily dose was varied considerably among the patients from a high of 410 mg to a low of 120 mg. In the end the inventors could discern no dose related correlation with copper variables nor with functional variables measured either during the study or at the one and two year time point.

Zinc administration was also used in these patients. The starting time of zinc administration was varied widely and did not correlate with copper variables outcome variables or toxicity. Early zinc therapy should theoretically help preserve liver function. In these patients liver function returned to normal by year 1 but since these tests don t measure the extent of tissue preservation it seems likely zinc was somewhat beneficial.

Measuring trichloracetic acid TCA soluble copper of the plasma is somewhat useful in assessing the impact of TM therapy on copper metabolism in Wilson s disease. Generally a high proportion of plasma copper in these patients is TCA soluble it averaged 56 in patients which is 27 p.g dl . All of the non ceruloplasmin plasma copper is TCA soluble and a somewhat variable portion of the ceruloplasmin copper is also TCA soluble. Because the ceruloplasmin levels are usually rather low in Wilson s disease most of the plasma copper is TCA soluble. The copper in the TM albumin copper complex in the blood is TCA insoluble. Thus as therapy proceeds the fraction of the plasma copper that is TCA soluble becomes smaller. During the late stages of TM therapy the TCA soluble fraction of plasma copper of the patients averaged 15 pg dl a significant reduction from the starting value of 27. The TCA soluble fraction cannot be used as an absolute endpoint for example attempting to reduce it to zero because a small and somewhat variable soluble fraction is usually present due to plasma ceruloplasmin. However the significant mean reduction from 27 to 15 p.g dl illustrates the beneficial effect that TM therapy has on the status of the potentially toxic plasma copper in these patients. Further evidence of the desirable impact of TM therapy on copper metabolism is shown by reduction of mean urine copper values during the latter part of TM therapy compared to baseline values.

TM has a quick and favorable impact on copper metabolism reducing the levels of potentially toxic copper of the blood and as contemplated the rest of the body as well. The primary clinical objective in treatment of Wilson s disease is to gain control over copper toxicity while not allowing worsening of the disease or symptoms. In other words the prime objective is to protect all neurological function that is present at the time therapy is started. This was evaluated weekly by quantitative neurological and speech exams. Methodology and the neurology rating scale system have been published Young et al. Neurol. 36 244 249 1986 . During the weeks of TM administration during which copper metabolism is being controlled neurological function as evaluated by quantitative neurological exam is protected. Only two patients 4 of the sample showed a change of more than 5 units the criterion for significant worsening.

During the years following induction doses which act to initially lower endogenous copper levers while the patients are on maintenance therapy the brain damage previously induced by copper is at least partially repaired. This is exemplified by the partial recovery in neurological scores seen at yearly time points in follow up. It is clear that with the initial TM approach long term recovery is excellent with most patients showing substantial neurological recovery. These excellent results are to be contrasted with results observed with penicillamine therapy. As pointed out earlier about 50 of patients initially deteriorate on penicillamine and that half of these or 25 of the original sample never recover to their pre penicillamine baseline.

The results of TM therapy on speech during the initial 8 weeks of TM therapy were evaluated by quantitative speech exams performed as described Brewer et al. Arch. Neurol. 53 1017 1025 1996 . During the weeks of TM administration during which copper metabolism is controlled neurological function as measured by quantitative speech exams is also controlled. No patient shows significant more than 2.0 units reduction in scores. During the following years while the patients are on maintenance therapy the brain damage previously induced by copper is partially repaired. This is exemplified by the partial recovery in speech scores over years of follow up. Long term recovery is excellent. No patient shows significantly more than 2.0 units less long term function than at the time of initiation of therapy and most show marked improvement.

Two undesirable effects from TM therapy were observed in these patients. One is a reversible anemia bone marrow depression which was exhibited by seven patients. The fall in hemoglobin in all of these patients was significant averaging 3.4 . Three of the patients showed a reduction in platelet count and four of the patients showed a reduction in white blood cell count that may have been significant. TM administration was stopped in all seven cases. Except for two of the patients stopping TM therapy occurred late in the 56 day course of TM administration.

At the time of the anemia these patients all had zero non ceruloplasmin plasma copper and an extremely low TCA soluble copper. The latter averaged 2.7 in these patients and the average value for this variable in the entire group of patients was 27 at the beginning and 15 at the height of therapy. The cause of the anemia bone marrow depression was concluded to be bone marrow depletion of copper. Since copper is required for heme synthesis and other steps in cell proliferation it could be expected that anemia and bone marrow effect would be the first signs of copper depletion. This result from copper depletion is a well known phenomenon.

Thus this undesirable response to TM is not a side effect but is rather due to overtreatment. It is perhaps surprising that it is possible to produce even localized bone marrow copper depletion within such a short period of time in Wilson s disease a disease in which the body is overloaded with copper. This response to TM is unique. None of the other anticopper drugs are able to produce this effect in early therapy. Thus this speaks to the potency of TM and the rapidity with which it can control copper levels. Its also likely that the bone marrow is especially dependent on plasma copper and that it is the first pool that it is reduced to very low levels. At a dose of 180 mg day or over overtreatment occurred in 6 of 37 patients. At a dose of 150 or lower only 1 of 13 patients exhibited overtreatment and that occurred very late 53 days in the 56 day program .

The second undesirable effect of TM therapy in these patients is an elevation of transaminase values in four of the patients. The serum AST and ALT values were elevated. TM therapy was discontinued in one patient because of these elevations. During the period of elevated serum AST and ALT values the urine copper increases contrary to the general trend in other patients where it is decreasing. These data support the concept that a hepatitis is occurring with release of copper from damaged hepatocytes. It is not clear why this hepatitis is occurring. However untreated Wilson s disease patients have an episodic hepatitis as part of their history. Since there is little in the way of observation of untreated patients after diagnosis no good information exists on how often episodes of transaminase elevations occur as part of the natural history of the disease.

Alternatively the TM in some cases may be mobilizing hepatic copper at a faster rate than it can be disposed of in which case these patients would be classified as showing a side effect of treatment. However the observation in copper poisoned sheep in which the acute hepatitis liver necrosis and hemolytic anemia are rapidly corrected with high doses of TM argue against this explanation. All four of these patients were treated with 150 mg TM day or higher. None of the patients treated with 150 mg or lower exhibited this response. No other negative effects of TM have been observed.

The following examples are provided in order to demonstrate and further illustrate certain preferred embodiments and aspects of the present invention and are not to be construed as limiting the scope thereof.

In the experimental disclosures which follow the following abbreviations apply N normal M molar mM millimolar M micromolar mol moles mmol millimoles mol micromoles nmol nanomoles pmol picomoles g grams mg milligrams g micrograms ng nanograms l or L liters ml milliliters l microliters cm centimeters mm millimeters m micrometers nm nanometers C. degrees Centigrade TM tetrathiomolybdate TGF transforming growth factor beta CTGF connective tissue growth factor Cp ceruloplasmin H E hematoxylin and eosin ANOVA analysis of variance SPARC secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine IU international units ConA concanavlin A ALT alanine amino transferase SF Sigma Frankel units 

Several experiments were carried out in the bleomycin mouse model of pulmonary fibrosis Experiment 1 Prophylaxis of TM Experiment Experiment 2 Dose Response and Experiment 3 Effect of TM as prophylaxis and treatment .

In the bleomycin mouse model which is known to be dependent upon the TGF pathway the intratracheal administration of bleomycin leads to the development of severe lung inflammation followed by fibrosis in 2 3 weeks at which time the mice are sacrificed. Fibrosis is quantified in lung tissue by measuring hydroxyproline a key component of the collagen that is deposited in fibrotic lung.

The bleomycin control animals showed high levels of hydroxyproline and severe histological inflammatory and fibrotic changes involving whole lobes while the TM treated bleomycin mice showed no increase in hydroxyproline and only small patches of inflammatory foci. These results are highly significant statistically.

Mice. Female CBA J mice at 8 10 weeks of age were from the Jackson Laboratories Bar Harbor Me. . These mice weighed an average of 21.4 g at the start of experiments with a standard deviation of 1.7 g.

Bleomycin treatment. This was undertaken on day 0 by endotracheal instillation through the oral cavity after exposure of the airway by pulling the tongue. Each mouse received 0.001 units of bleomycin Bristol Myers Evansville Ind. gm body weight in 30 l of sterile saline while control mice received an equal volume of sterile saline only.

TM treatment experiments. TM was given in 0.25 ml of water by intragastric gavage once daily in the doses and times indicated in the various studies as described below.

Three experiments were carried out. In experiment 1 the effect of TM administered before the administration of bleomycin was examined thus the efficacy of TM as a prophylactic was evaluated. In experiment 2 the effect of TM at different doses after bleomycin administration was examined. In experiment 3 the effect of starting the administration of TM at various times before and after the administration of bleomycin was examined.

Copper status. In the presence of TM therapy copper status is difficult to assess by measuring serum copper directly since a slowly turning over tripartite complex of TM copper and albumin accumulates causing the serum copper to be elevated even though availability of copper is decreasing. However the inventors have previously determined that serum ceruloplasmin Cp is a good surrogate marker of copper status G J Brewer et al. Clin. Cancer 6 1 10 2000 because the liver secretes this copper containing protein into the blood at a rate dependent upon copper availability. Copper status was followed by assaying serum ceruloplasmin Cp by measuring its oxidase activity K H Schosinsky et al. Clin. Chem. 20 12 1556 1563 1974 . Blood was obtained from the tail vein of the mice. To avoid excessive bleeding only one mouse from each group was bled at any time point during the study and mice were rotated so that different mice were bled at the different time points. A Cp assay in all mice was done at time of sacrifice.

Hydroxyproline assay. The extent of fibrosis was assessed by assaying hydroxyproline content of whole lung homogenates at the time of sacrifice as previously described M Gharaee Kermani et al. J. Leukoc. Biol. 64 657 666 1998 . Results are expressed as g hydroxyproline lung the lung tissue included both lungs .

Microscopic evaluation of the lungs. For morphological evaluation of fibrosis lungs were inflated with formalin at the time of sacrifice and after overnight fixation were embedded in paraffin and sections prepared for H E staining as well as for Masson trichrome staining for evaluation of collagen deposition as previously described M Gharaee Kermani et al. J. Leukoc. Biol. 64 657 666 1998 .

Statistics. For comparisons of means ANOVA was used followed by Scheffe s test for multiple comparisons when appropriate. For the dose response study regression analysis was used to evaluate statistical significance. For the third study varying time of TM initiation the standard error was calculated for each group and a 95 confidence interval for the mean of each group was determined.

In this experiment the effect of TM administered before the administration of bleomycin was examined thus the efficacy of TM as a prophylactic was evaluated.

There were four experimental groups of five to seven mice each. Group 1 received bleomycin group 2 was a saline control group 3 received bleomycin and TM therapy and group 4 was a TM therapy control. The TM was given in a dose of 0.7 mg mouse day beginning 7 days prior to bleomycin treatment. During days 9 to 11 after bleomycin the TM treated mice received 1.2 mg of TM daily to ensure adequate lowering of copper levels and then received 0.7 mg daily for the duration of the study. The mice were sacrificed 21 days after bleomycin treatment.

The results from Experiment 1 are shown in Table 1. At the time of sacrifice the mean body weight of bleomycin treated animals group 1 was significantly less than that of saline controls group 2 . TM treatment protected against some of the bleomycin induced weight loss Table 1 as shown by the lack of a significant difference in weight between the bleomycin TM group 3 and the saline group 2 means. TM alone group 4 tended to produce some weight loss in experiment 1 Table 1 .

The mean hematocrit of bleomycin treated animals group 1 of Table 1 was significantly increased compared to the other three groups probably due to hemoconcentration from not drinking adequate water near the end of the 21 days.

The mean ceruloplasmin level of bleomycin TM mice group 3 of Table 1 was about 55 that of bleomycin animals group 1 and the two were significantly different. TM alone group 4 resulted in a mean ceruloplasmin about 80 of saline controls but this difference didn t reach statistical significance.

The hydroxyproline results of experiment 1 are also shown in Table 1. Therapy with TM almost completely abrogated fibrosis as measured by this assay. Bleomycin treatment group 1 produced a highly significant increase in hydroxyproline compared to saline controls group 2 but there was no significant difference between the TM treated bleomycin group 3 and the saline group 2 and the means were very close to one another. There was a highly significant difference in the mean values between bleomycin treated group 1 and bleomycin TM treated group 3 animals. In this experiment TM alone seemed to have some effect on increasing hydroxyproline levels an effect which wasn t borne out in experiments 2 and 3.

The lung histopathology results from experiment 1 bear out the hydroxyproline results. Lung sections from bleomycin treated and bleomycin plus TM treated mice were examined by staining with H E and photographing at 40 400 or 1000 magnification. The results indicate that while scattered patches of fibrosis and inflammatory cells could still be found in the TM treated bleomycin animals these were substantially smaller with lesser degrees of cellular infiltration compared to the animals treated with bleomycin alone. Sections stained with Masson trichrome which is a stain for collagen revealed much less collagen deposition in the TM treated group relative to mice receiving bleomycin only.

In this experiment the effect of TM at different doses after bleomycin administration was examined. Experimental groups of four bleomycin treated and two to four control non bleomycin treated mice were given varying doses of TM. Initially All TM treated mice received identical loading doses of 1.2 mg mouse day for 3 days minus 5 to minus 3 days prior to bleomycin administration. From that point on groups of mice were given 0.3 0.5 0.7 or 0.9 mg of TM mouse day until sacrifice at day 21 after bleomycin treatment. A group of four bleomycin treated and a group of four non bleomycin treated mice received no TM.

A significant protection against the weight loss caused by bleomycin was provided by TM treatment as shown in . Protection against weight loss from bleomycin by TM is generally related to the dose of TM. The 0.9 mg TM dose is fully protective with a weight curve similar to saline controls whereas 0.3 mg TM is only slightly protective. Doses of 0.5 mg and 0.7 mg TM are intermediately protective.

Table 2 shows the effect of varying TM dose on ceruloplasmin levels data at 8 and 14 days are from single mice data from 21 days are at the time of sacrifice and represent the mean and standard error of four mice in each group . At the end of the experiment all four TM treatment groups show relatively low ceruloplasmin levels. However at intermediate time points the 0.9 mg dose shows low levels the 0.3 mg dose relatively normal levels and the 0.5 mg and 0.7 mg doses intermediate levels.

Finally the protection against bleomycin induced fibrosis as measured by hydroxyproline accumulation is dose dependent as shown in Table 3 and . Regression of the hydroxyproline mean values against TM doses from 0.3 mg to 0.9 mg TM give a highly significant F statistic 

In this experiment the effect of starting the administration of TM at various times before and after the administration of bleomycin was examined.

All experimental groups of mice treated with TM received a four day loading dose of 1.2 mg mouse day and then 0.9 mg mouse day until sacrifice at day 21 after bleomycin treatment. However the starting time of TM treatment was varied beginning with 5 days prior to bleomycin in the first experimental group then 4 7 and 14 days after bleomycin in experimental groups two three and four respectively. All experimental groups contained five mice at the beginning. A control group of five mice received neither bleomycin nor TM.

A significant suppression of hydroxyproline production was observed if the TM was given before bleomycin or started at day 4 or 7 after bleomycin. Regression of mean hydroxyproline levels on the day therapy was started gave an F statistic of 21 p

In summary TM treatment completely abrogated fibrosis and markedly attenuated inflammation in a model that is directly relevant to ARDS and pulmonary fibrosis patients.

This example examines the mechanisms by which TM inhibits fibrosis in the bleomycin mouse model. This example and the experiments described herein focus on evaluating the possible inhibition by TM of the action of TGF and TNF which have been shown to be important in the pathogenesis of fibrosis in the bleomycin model

Mice. Female CBA J mice at 8 10 weeks old were from the Jackson Laboratories Bar Harbor Me. . At the start of the experiments the mice weighed between 20 25 g.

Bleomycin treatment. Briefly bleomycin was administrated on day 0 by means of endotracheal instillation through the oral cavity after exposing the mouse s airway by pulling the tongue. Each mouse received 0.001 units gm body wt of bleomycin Bristol Myers Evansville Ind. in 30 l sterile saline solution. Control mice were administrated an equal volume of sterile saline solution.

TM treatment experiments. TM was given in 0.25 ml of water once daily by means of intragastric gavage in the doses and times indicated in the various studies.

Three experiments were carried out. Experiment 1 comprised four groups of three mice each. Group 1 received bleomycin only group 2 received bleomycin and TM therapy group 3 received saline in the trachea rather than bleomycin and group 4 received TM therapy only. The mice in groups 2 and 4 each received 1.2 mg of TM per day for four days prior to bleomycin and then were given 0.9 mg TM per day until sacrifice at seven days after bleomycin.

Experiment 2 comprised four groups of five mice each. The four groups were assigned as in experiment 1 to bleomycin bleomycin and TM saline rather than bleomycin and TM only. Groups 2 and 4 were started on TM five days after bleomycin treatment at a dose of 1.2 mg per day for four days and then 0.9 mg per day until sacrifice at day 21.

Experiment 3 involved variable starting times of TM and comprised five groups of mice. All of the mice received bleomycin. Group 1 4 mice received no TM. Mice in groups 2 through 5 received a 4 day loading dose of 1.2 mg TM day then 0.9 mg day until sacrifice at day 21. However starting times of TM treatment were varied beginning 5 days before bleomycin in Group 2 TM 5 4 mice then beginning coincident with bleomycin in group 3 TM 0 2 mice beginning 4 days after bleomycin in group 4 TM 4 4 mice and beginning 7 days after bleomycin in group 5 TM 7 5 mice .

Copper status. In the presence of TM therapy copper status cannot be assessed by direct measurement of serum copper because of the accumulation of a tripartite complex of TM copper and albumin that turns over slowly causing the serum copper to be increased even though availability of copper is decreasing. However it was found that serum ceruloplasmin is a good surrogate marker of copper status because the liver secretes this copper containing protein into the blood at a rate dependent on copper availability. Copper status was monitored by assaying serum ceruloplasmin on the basis of its oxidase activity in blood from the tail vein. To avoid excessive bleeding one mouse from each group was bled at each time point mice were rotated so that different mice were bled. A ceruloplasmin assay was conducted in each mouse when it was killed.

Hydroxyproline assay. The extent of fibrosis was assessed by assaying hydroxyproline content of whole lung homogenates at the time of sacrifice as described in Gharaee Kermani et al. J. Leukoc. Biol. 64 657 666 1998 . Hydroxyproline was expressed as micrograms of hydroxyproline per mouse lung the lung tissue included both lungs .

Cytokine assays. Expression of TNF and TGF was determined in lung tissues from the various experiments. TNF mRNA was measured in total RNA isolated from lung tissue homogenates. Primer Express 2.0 software Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. was used to design Taqman primers and MGB probes 6 FAM conjugated for TNF which were then purchased from Applied Biosystems PE ABI Foster City Calif. . Primers and probes for GAPDH were purchased from PE ABI. GAPDH mRNA was used as internal control to normalize the amount of input RNA. One step real time RT PCR was undertaken with Taqman One Step RT PCR Master Mix PE ABI using a GeneAmp 5700 Sequence Detection System PE ABI . Results were expressed as the threshold cycle CT at which an increase of reporter fluorescence Rn can first be detected. The levels of TNF mRNA were normalized to the internal control GAPDH signals and expressed as 2.

Lung TGF levels were measured using either ELISA with a kit from R D Systems Minneapolis Minn. or using a cell line stably transfected with a plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 PAI 1 promoter luciferase construct M Abe et al. Analytical Biochemistry 216 276 284 1994 . Briefly for the latter assay mink lung epithelial cells transfected with the PAI 1 promoter construct were incubated with the indicated activated by pre acidification test samples diluted 1 2 dilution in fresh media. After a 24 hr incubation the cells were lysed with reporter lysis buffer Promega Madison Wis. . Luciferase activity was measured by the luciferase assay system Promega and read using a Reporter microplate luminometer Turner Designs Sunnyvale Calif. . Human TGF 1 R D Systems was used as a standard.

 Smooth muscle actin assay. De novo appearance of myofibroblasts is a hallmark of active fibrosis and these cells are known as the primary source of interstitial collagen in pulmonary fibrosis See e.g. K Zhang et al. Am. J. Pathol 145 114 125 1994 . Since smooth muscle actin is a marker of myofibroblast differentiation the level of this protein in lung tissue homogenates was measured by ELISA as before use same reference above for TGF assay by ELISA .

Statistical analysis. For comparisons of means Fisher s t test was used and analysis of variance followed by Scheff s test for multiple comparisons when appropriate. For varying starting times for TM Experiment 3 regression analysis was also used to evaluate statistical significance.

In this experiment TM was started in TM treated animals four days prior to bleomycin and continued until the animals were sacrificed at day 7 the point at which TNF levels and the inflammatory response is at its peak.

At the time of sacrifice mean Cp levels in TM treated groups were approximately half of the means in the non TM treated groups and using Scheff s corrections for multiple comparisons were significantly lower in the TM treated groups p

TNF mRNA levels in the lungs from the four groups of animals of Experiment 1 are shown in . The mean lung TNF mRNA levels were markedly and significantly elevated in bleomycin treated animals versus controls. TM therapy in bleomycin treated animals almost completely and significantly inhibited this increase in levels. TNF protein levels were not detectable in any of the samples by ELISA using commercially available kits.

TGF protein levels in the lungs of the four groups of animals of Experiment 1 are shown in . The mean lung TGF level was elevated in bleomycin treated animals compared to controls. TM therapy in bleomycin treated animals inhibited this increase in response to bleomycin and the mean levels in bleomycin versus bleomycin TM were very close to statistical significance p 0.06 .

Lysyl oxidase in the lungs of the four groups of animals was also measured. There were no significant differences in the means of the four groups. Specifically activity was not inhibited in the TM treated animals compared to non TM treated animals.

In this experiment TM was started in TM treated animals five days after bleomycin and continued until day 21 when all animals were sacrificed. The objective was to allow the inflammatory reaction to peak which occurs at about day seven prior to copper levels dropping into the target range which is about four days after TM is started or day nine of this experiment. Then at the time of sacrifice TGF was to be measured to test whether it is inhibited by TM therapy when the inflammatory reaction is allowed to occur.

At the time of sacrifice mean Cp levels in the bleomycin TM group was 38 of the mean of the bleomycin group and the two means were significantly different using Scheff s correction p

TGF protein levels in the lungs from the four groups of animals of Experiment 2 are shown in . The mean TGF levels were almost three times as high in bleomycin treated animals compared to controls. TM therapy in bleomycin treated animals completely inhibited this increase in TGF levels but because of relatively high variances and small sample sizes the results were not statistically significant.

SMA smooth muscle actin protein levels in the lungs from the four groups of animals of Experiment 2 are shown in . The mean SMA levels were significantly increased in bleomycin treated animals compared to saline treated controls. TM therapy in bleomycin treated animals inhibited most of the increase in SMA levels brought about by bleomycin and was close to statistical significance p 0.09 .

Hydroxyproline levels in the lungs from the four groups of animals of Experiment 2 are shown in . The mean hydroxyproline levels were significantly elevated in bleomycin treated animals compared to controls. TM therapy in bleomycin treated animals completely and significantly inhibited the increase in hydroxyproline levels brought about by bleomycin.

In this experiment the starting time of TM therapy was varied. The mean TGF protein levels in the lungs of the animals from this experiment are shown in . TM started prior to bleomycin Bleo TM 5 significantly inhibited TGF levels when the means were compared Bleo TM 5 versus Bleo p 0.04 . This effect lessened as the starting time of TM therapy was made later and later producing a significant regression for Bleo TM 5 Bleo TM 0 Bleo TM 4 and Bleo TM 7 data points p 0.05 .

A protocol is designed to treat patients with chronic pulmonary fibrosis. The initial protocol is a phase I II trial of TM treatment in patients with usual interstitial pneumonia refractory to previous therapy.

Idiopathic interstitial pneumonias IIP are part of a group a diffuse parenchymal diseases including usual interstitial pneumonia UIP IPF respiratory bronchiolitis interstitial lung disease cryptogenic organizing pneumonia alveolar macrophage pneumonia acute interstitial pneumonia lymphocytic interstitial pneumonia and nonspecific interstitial pneumonia. Usual interstitial pneumonia also referred to as idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis IPF is the most common type of IIP and is associated with the worst prognosis. The median survival for patients with UIP is 2 4 years from the time of diagnosis. UIP typically affects people 40 and 70 years of age with over two thirds being over the age of 60 at the time of diagnosis. There does not appear to be a specific predilection for a particular ethnicity or race although IPF may be more common in males.

Recent studies in the bleomycin mouse model have shown an antifibrotic and antiinflammatory effect of TM therapy as described in Example 1 . As described above TM is an anticopper drug developed for the treatment of Wilson s disease. TM has also been shown to produce an antiangiogenic effect in non Wilson s disease patients with cancer and in animal tumor models by virtue of lowering systemic copper levels. Angiogenesis the ability to grow new blood vessels is believed to be one component required for the progression of the fibrotic response that is typical of IPF. Thus the rationale for a trial of TM in this disease is based upon its successful use in the bleomycin mouse model and its antifibrotic and antiinflammatory properties as well as its antiangiogenic properties.

Up to twenty patients with UIP that have demonstrated disease progression with standard therapy are enrolled in the study during the first year. The patients initially receive TM as an induction dose to induce a reduction of ceruloplasmin Cp levels after induction of ceruloplasmin Cp to the target range of 5 15 mg dl of serum the patients then receive maintenance TM doses to maintain that Cp target. Continued treatment of the patients occurs until one of several events occurs serious further progression of the pulmonary disease recovery or disease stabilization for an extended period of time.

Only patients with UIP IPF not associated with any known precipitating cause are eligible for this study. Patients with suspected unusual interstitial pneumonia UIP are eligible for initial entry into the study. The criteria for diagnosis are illustrated in and Tables 4 6. In general the diagnosis will be considered in the setting of one of the following 1 an appropriate clinical picture plus a typical histologic picture on surgical lung biopsy as described in Table 4 or 2 an appropriate clinical and radiographic picture with bronchoscopic exclusion of an alternative process as described in Table 5.

In addition to fulfilling either criteria 1 or 2 above patients should meet the inclusion exclusion requirements listed in Table 6. Table 7 provides Criteria for disease progression after at least six months of standard therapy considered in some embodiments of the present invention.

All patients undergo a screening history and physical examination. The physician discusses therapeutic options with the patient including standard therapy experimental protocols and the potential for consideration of lung transplantation. During this visit the inclusion exclusion criteria are reviewed.

Flexible fiberoptic bronchoscopy FFB is performed in those patients with suspected UIP using standard technique. Bronchoalveolar lavage BAL is performed using standard technique described below and transbronchial biopsy TBBx is performed using fluoroscopic guidance. Tissue is obtained from a radiologically affected region of lung parenchyma. Patients are not asked to undergo a second bronchoscopy if their first bronchoscopy was performed at an outside institution. The purpose of this bronchoscopy is to rule out diseases other than UIP Table 5 as the tissue samples obtained by bronchoscopy are usually too small to demonstrate the histopathologic features of UIP Table 4 . BAL involves the instillation of small volumes of saline solution through the bronchoscope after it is wedged into a segmental bronchus. The fluid is immediately aspirated back through the bronchoscope by suction and collected in a vacuum trap. The effluent contains cells that are extracted by centrifugation. TBBx involves the passage of a flexible biopsy forceps through the bronchoscope and into the pulmonary parenchyma. The location of the biopsy forceps is noted under fluoroscopy and the biopsy forceps are positioned appropriately in involved areas as determined by chest x ray and HRCT. Five to eight TBBxs are normally obtained during the course of a diagnostic evaluation for these diseases. Each biopsy specimen is approximately three millimeters in diameter. Only those patients who in the judgment of the pulmonary physician performing the bronchoscopy are in stable medical condition following the procurement of the necessary diagnostic biopsies undergo additional transbronchial biopsies.

Surgical lung biopsy specimens are obtained from patients undergoing surgical lung biopsy as part of the diagnostic work up for IIP. Lung biopsies are obtained from sites which demonstrate the following radiographic characteristics 1 normal appearance 2 ground glass opacity and 3 fibrotic disease. When technically feasible biopsies are obtained from all lobes in the biopsied lung. Patients are not required to undergo a surgical lung biopsy if they can meet the diagnostic criteria outlined above for UIP IPF without a surgical lung biopsy. For patients that have undergone a surgical lung biopsy at another institution their slides are reviewed to confirm the diagnosis of UIP prior to entry into this trial.

A baseline dyspnea index BDI is collected using the techniques described by Mahler et al at the time of initial evaluation. The transitional dyspnea index TDI is administered at times of follow up.

A general measure of the patient s perceived health and daily activities is assessed using Short form 36 question SF 36 instrument. Multiple dimensions are assessed including physical function role limitation caused by physical impairment bodily pain general health vitality social function role limitation caused by emotional impairment and mental health. The use of this instrument has been validated in patients with interstitial lung disease.

The St. George s Respiratory Questionnaire SGRQ disease specific instrument was designed to assess the impact of respiratory disease on overall health daily life and perceived well being of the patient. It has been validated in patients with interstitial lung disease. Three components are measured including respiratory symptoms impairment of mobility or physical activity and the psychosocial impact of disease.

Pulmonary function testing is performed according to the guidelines of the American Thoracic Society. The forced vital capacity FVC and the forced expiratory volume in one second are measured with a recording spirometer and pneumotachograph. The maximal values from three maneuvers are reported. Thoracic gas volume V is measured with a body plethysmograph. Diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide is determined by the single breath method.

A baseline high resolution computed tomography HRCT scan is performed within six months of beginning the study. A semiquantitative score is generated by two blinded radiologists who interpret the HRCT using the scoring system enumerated in Table 8. The score is reported with an alveolar component which describes the extent of ground glass opacity ranging from 0 to 5 and an interstitial component which describes reticular densities ranging from 0 to 5 . The sum is the total score ranging from 0 to 10 .

The current cancer therapy induction dose for TM is 40 mg 3 daily with meals and 60 mg at bedtime separated from food 180 mg day . At this dose it takes 15 25 days to induce cancer patients into the Cp target range. This same induction dose is used for IPF patients. All patients remain on their induction doses until they reach target Cp levels then are switched to maintenance therapy.

As soon as patients reach target Cp levels their TM dose is be dropped to that dose estimated to be required for maintaining Cp in the target range. Generally this dose is 20 mg 2 with meals and 20 mg HS but the dose for any particular patient is customized up or down if necessary. In the absence of unacceptable toxicity patients are kept on maintenance TM until it is obvious that the disease is seriously progressing or while improving until recovery is complete or if the disease persists in a chronic but stable form see study endpoints below .

There are two important types of measurements in terms of monitoring and adjusting TM dose. The first is measurement of serum ceruloplasmin Cp . The Cp level is a surrogate measure of body copper status and has worked well in all kinds of applications of TM therapy including treating patients with cancer. During induction Cp is measured weekly. Once a stable maintenance dose of TM is underway the frequency of Cp measurements are decreased to once every two weeks then once every four weeks if appropriate.

The other type of measurement necessary to monitor TM therapy is blood counts. The first indication of overtreatment is a mild anemia and or leukopenia which is easily correctable by lowering the dose or if more severe by temporarily stopping the drug. This is rarely seen at Cp levels over 10 but is more frequently seen between Cp levels of 5 and 10 and is much more common at Cp levels below 5. Thus the target range is Cp levels between 5 and 15 to give copper lowering therapy an optimal chance to suppress fibrosis and inflammation . Weekly blood counts are done during induction and the early part of maintenance to help guide the proper therapeutic dose. During the latter part of maintenance blood counts are done at the same frequency as Cp assays. If there is a mild replicable but less than 20 drop of hemoglobin WBC or platelets the TM dose is decreased based on clinical judgment. If there is a 20 or more drop in hemoglobin WBC or platelets the drug is temporarily stopped until count recovery and then resumed at 75 or less of the previous dose. If there is a recurrence the drug holiday is repeated and resumed at 75 of that previous dose. Dosage adjustments are continued until a dose is reached at which blood counts are not affected.

At this visit a history and physical are performed. Patients are asked to complete the transitional dyspnea index the SF 36 and the St. George s respiratory questionnaire. Pulmonary function studies including a spirometry and diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide are performed. Follow up pulmonary function testing is standard clinical practice in patients with UIP.

At this visit a history and physical are performed. Patients are asked to complete the transitional dyspnea index the SF 36 and the St. George s respiratory questionnaire. Pulmonary function studies including a spirometry diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide and a six minute hall walk are performed. Follow up pulmonary function testing is standard clinical practice in patients with UIP.

At this visit a history and physical are performed. Patients are asked to complete the transitional dyspnea index the SF 36 and the St. George s respiratory questionnaire. Pulmonary function studies including a spirometry and diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide are performed. Follow up pulmonary function testing is standard clinical practice in patients with UIP.

At this visit a history and physical are performed. Patients are asked to complete the transitional dyspnea index the SF 36 and the St. George s respiratory questionnaire. Pulmonary function studies including a spirometry and diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide are performed. Follow up pulmonary function testing is standard clinical practice in patients with UIP. A follow up HRCT is also performed to evaluate for changes in the amount of ground glass and or fibrosis.

The primary endpoint of the study is a change in pulmonary function where a change in pulmonary function is defined as either 1 improvement defined as a 10 or greater increase in FVC or a 20 or greater increase in DLCO or 2 worsening defined as a 10 or greater decrease in FVC or a 20 or greater decrease in DLCO or 3 stable defined as the lack of a 10 change in FVC or a 20 change in DLCO.

Pulmonary function is monitored at three month intervals. For patients with improvement TM treatment is continued until pulmonary function stabilizes lack of improvement in FVC or DLCO of 5 over a 3 month period . Once these improved patients stabilize TM is discontinued for a 3 month period to determine that stopping the drug does not jeopardize recovery. If these improved patients decline then TM treatment is restarted. Patients remaining stable are treated for 12 months and then the drug is stopped and pulmonary function is reassessed at three months. If these stable patients remain stable off drug the drug is permanently discontinued. If these stable patients decline then TM treatment is reinstituted. Patients worsening on two consecutive visits with at least 3 months of having Cp in a therapeutic range are taken off TM.

Secondary endpoints of the study include 1 overall mortality 2 changes in quality of life as assessed by the St. George s respiratory questionnaire and the SF 36 3 change in dyspnea as assessed by the baseline and transitional dyspnea indexes 4 change in six minute walk distance 5 change in oxygen requirements at rest and with exercise as determined via a six minute walk test and 6 change in the amount of ground glass and or fibrosis as measured by HRCT. Criteria for stopping administration of the study drug include but are not limited to 1 patients mortality or reaching a primary end point as outlined above and 2 any unexpected toxicity potentially attributable to the study drug i.e. TM .

A study was carried out in a mouse model of concanavilin A Con A production of liver cirrhosis. There were four experimental groups of several mice each. Two groups received ConA of which one group also received TM therapy 4 mice and while the other group received saline therapy 6 mice and two other groups did not receive ConA of which one group also received TM therapy 3 mice while the other group received saline therapy 6 mice . The Con A was injected intravenously once weekly into mice 0.3 mg mouse week and produced a hepatitis which is manifested by an increasing level of alanine transaminase ALT enzymes in the blood. The TM was given once daily by oral lavage in a dose of 0.7 mg mouse day beginning 7 days prior to ConA treatment. During days 9 to 11 after Con A the TM treated mice received 1.2 mg of TM daily to ensure adequate lowering of copper levels and then received 0.7 mg daily for the duration of the study. A blood sample was obtained 28 days after ConA treatment and the mice were sacrificed on the same day. Serum alanine transaminase ALT was measured in Sigma Frankel SF units where one unit is the formation of 0.000482 umoles of glutamate minute at pH 7.5 and 25 C.

TM therapy almost completely inhibits the ConA induced increase of serum alanine transaminase ALT enzymes as shown in . The ALT results indicated that TM treatment completely abrogated inflammation in a model that is directly relevant to hepatitis. Histological examination showed inflammation and early bridging fibrosis in the controls but not in the TM treated animals.

This example describes additional TM treatment experiments in the model Concanavalin Con A mouse model of liver damage. As described previously in the Con A mouse model intravenously administered Con A produces an inflammatory reaction and cell damage in the animal s liver that is marked by the release hepatic transaminase enzymes such as amino leucine amino transferase ALT into the blood. Several different experiments are reported in this example

Four serial injections of Con A at weekly intervals were given to the four groups of mice shown in the Table 9. Twenty four hours after each of the first three injections one mouse from each group was bled and serum ALT measured. In this experiment TM was started in the TM treated mice before the first Con A injection. After the fourth injection of Con A all the mice were bled for ALT and Cp measurements and the experiment terminated. The Cp levels in TM treated mice were 25 50 of non TM treated animals. The ALT results Table 9 show that after each injection there is a marked increase 24 hours later in serum ALT due to Con A and that this effect is almost completely blocked by TM therapy. Statistical evaluation t test with Scheffe s correction means marked 1 are significantly different p 0.0001 means marked 2 are significantly different p 0.001 means marked 3 are not significantly different p 0.4 ALT levels are expressed in Sigma Frankel units each Sigma Frankel unit equal 0.48 of an International Unit .

In a second experiment Con A was given in weekly injections for four weeks prior to any treatment with TM. The objective was to see if TM treatment would be useful after considerable organ damage had been allowed to occur. Then one group of Con A treated animals were initiated on TM therapy. The results are shown in . With TM treatment the ALT values returned to normal in spite of continued Con A injections.

In a third experiment two Con A injections one week apart were given to 10 mice. Five of the mice had begun TM treatment 5 days prior to the first injection. All the mice were sacrificed 2 hrs after the last Con A injection. Plasma levels of TNF were significantly lower p 0.03 in the TM treated animals and plasma levels of IL 1 interleukin 1 another inflammatory cytokine were close to being significantly lower p 0.15 in the TM treated group.

The carbon tetrachloride CT mouse model produces much more liver fibrosis cirrhosis than the Con A model. In this model carbon tetrachloride is injected intraperitoneally twice weekly and after 12 weeks a well established cirrhosis should be present. This can be evaluated histologically and can be quantitated by measuring liver hydroxyproline a major amino acid in collagen. The TM was started in TM treated animals at the beginning of week 5 and the animals were sacrificed at week 12.

The serum ALT data from this experiment at the time of sacrifice at 12 weeks are shown in . There were 4 animals in the CT group 4 in the CT TM group 2 in the olive oil TM group and 1 in the TM group. Since there were so few animals in the last two groups and since their data were generally similar they were combined. The mean of the CT TM group was significantly lower p

The liver hydroxyproline data from this experiment after week 12 are shown in . TM clearly blocks all fibrosis as evaluated by hydroxyproline. The CT TM mean was significantly p 0.001 lower than the CT mean and there was no difference between the CT TM and control means. This is corroborated by the histological data. The CT control has a well established cirrhosis whereas the CT TM treated liver is essentially normal.

A study is carried out in an animal model of renal fibrosis. After kidney injury of almost any type a diffuse interstitial fibrosis believed to be due to over activity of the TGF pathway produces kidney failure.

Rats are made diabetic by administering streptozotocin renal fibrosis is typically well developed by 60 days after initiation of streptozotocin administration. TM therapy is initiated at varying times relative to streptozotocin administration in several groups of rats and the results compared to control groups not receiving TM. Typically at least three mice are present in each experimental group. In one group TM therapy is initiated prior to streptozotocin administration to determine whether TM therapy mitigates the pancreatic damage as it mitigates hepatitis cirrhosis in the concanavilin A mouse model described above. In other groups TM is started after streptozotocin administration at various times to determine if it can mitigate the renal fibrosis that develops after streptozotocin administration.

The presence and extent of renal fibrosis is determined. The results show that TM therapy mitigates pancreatic damage if administered before diabetes is induced and that TM therapy after diabetes is induced mitigates the renal fibrosis that develops as a result of the diabetes.

A study is carried out in an mouse model of Alzheimer s disease. The mouse model is the Tg2576 mouse model as described above in the Description of the Invention and in further detail in Gau et al. 2002 J Gau et al. Amer. J. Pathology 160 2 731 738 2002 J Q Trojanowski Amer. J. Pathology 160 2 409 411 2002 . These mice begin developing amyloid plaques at about 9 months of age and plaques are well developed by 15 months. The transgenic mice also develop progressive age dependent cognitive and behavioral abnormalities described in the background.

Forty female Tg2576 mice aged 3 months are purchased from Tagonic Inc and grown until 9 months of age at which time they are divided into two groups of 20. One group begins treatment with TM at 9 months of age and are treated until sacrifice at age 15 months. TM treatment consists of daily gavage of 0.7 mg TM mouse in 0.25 ml of sterile water. This dose has been shown to reduce the serum Cp levels surrogate marker of copper status into the target range of 25 50 of baseline levels. Once weekly one mouse from the treatment group and one from the control group are bled from the tail vein to determine Cp levels and blood counts. Mice will be rotated so that different mice are bled each week. Cp is determined by an oxidase method. If the Cp levels begin to move out of the target range TM dose is adjusted accordingly. Control mice receive a daily gavage of 0.25 ml of sterile water only. The weight of the mice is determined weekly. It is contemplated based upon past experience that the weight in mice in the Cp target range will match the weight of control mice.

After 6 months of treatment with water or TM all mice in both groups are sacrificed painlessly and the brains removed and divided sagitally. The left half is utilized for physiological assays and is homogenized for measurements of A 40 and A 42 by ELISA see below . The right half is utilized for anatomical assays and is fixed in 4 paraformaldehyde in phosphate buffered saline PBS pH 7.4 at 4 C. and processed for paraffin embedding. Fixed hemi brains are sectioned coronally at 5 8 m thickness and sections processed for hematoxylin and eosin Bielschowky silver and Congo Red staining. Analysis of amyloid plaque load in mouse brains is determined by light microscopic semi quantitative analysis of brain sections. Subtle effects of treatment are measured by a more rigorous quantitative analysis of amyloid plaques in brain sections to detect a significant difference.

Brain homogenates of left hemi brains are used for detection of human A 40 and A 42 by ELISA as previously described J Gau J et al. Amer. J. Pathology 160 2 731 738 2001 . Homogenates are centrifuged at 7840 g for 5 minutes at 4 C. to remove insoluble material. A sandwich ELISA is performed on the supernatants using BAN50 as the capture antibody and either horseradish peroxidase coupled BA 27 or BC 05 as the detection antibody for A 40 or A 42 respectively. BAN 50 is a monoclonal antibody specific for A 1 10. All samples are measured in triplicate. Standard curves for the ELISA are constructed using pure human A 40 and A 42 Bachem . In addition to measurements of A a commercially available ELISA is used to detect TGF levels in brain homogenates of the two groups.

The results show that a mean reduction in A 40 and A 42 levels of up to about 50 in brain homogenates of treated compared to untreated Tg2576 mice is observed at about 15 months of age. Assuming equal variation in treated and untreated animals 20 animals per group are adequate to readily detect a mean reduction of about 50 . The results also show that semi quantitative analysis of amyloid load in brain sections correlate with reduction of A levels measured by ELISA. Subtle effects of TM treatment on amyloid plaque deposits in brain are measured by a more rigorous quantitative study this study utilizes equipment available at the University of Michigan imaging core facility. The results also show that a significant reduction in levels of TGF as measured by ELISA in TM treated mouse brain homogenates is observed.

A protocol is designed to treat patients with Alzheimer s disease. Briefly 40 patients with mild to moderate dementia MMSE 10 23 due to probable AD are recruited where patients have been enrolled and followed for some time in other programs so that the clinical diagnosis and baseline studies including neuropsychometric tests are well established. Patients are randomized to receive placebo or TM but the pilot study is single blinded. The results show that TM treatment arrests or retards decline over 12 months compared to the expected cognitive and functional decline in the placebo group. Before and during the clinical trial currently approved FDA cholinesterase inhibitors are withheld but other medications are typically continued. Inclusion and exclusion criteria routinely used in clinical trials of patients with AD are also utilized in this trial.

An induction dose of 20 mg TM 3 daily will be administered with meals and 60 mg HS HS means at bedtime will be administered away from food. When Cp reaches the target range of 10 15 mg dl usually in 2 3 weeks a typical maintenance dose is used of 20 mg 2 daily with meals and 40 mg HS. Cp and blood counts are followed weekly for a time adjusting the TM dose as necessary to maintain target. After a stable Cp and TM dose are established Cp and blood counts are followed every 2 4 weeks. The following battery of neuropyschometric tests are carried out at the beginning and end of the treatment 12 months later MMSE CDR and ADAS Cog. It is contemplated that few drop outs will occur since TM is well tolerated. For statistical purposes drop outs will be subject to intention to treat analysis.

All publications and patents mentioned in the above specification are herein incorporated by reference. Various modifications and variations of the described method and system of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Although the invention has been described in connection with specific preferred embodiments it should be understood that the invention as claimed should not be unduly limited to such specific embodiments. Indeed various modifications of the described modes for carrying out the invention which are obvious to those skilled in the relevant art are intended to be within the scope of the following claims.

