---

title: Fiber to the home broadband home unit
abstract: According to one embodiment, an optical network terminal (ONT) for providing communication services to a single residential unit comprises a passive optical network interface (PI) circuit, a residential service interface (RSI) circuit, and a power unit. The PI circuit receives optical signals from an optical fiber and transmits optical signals onto the optical fiber. The PI circuit is adapted to convert received optical signals containing voice information to electrical voice ATM cells, received optical signals containing data information to electrical data ATM cells, and received optical signals containing video signals to electrical video signals. The PI circuit is also adapted to convert electrical voice ATM cells and electrical data ATM cells to optical signals for transmission over the optical fiber.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07454140&OS=07454140&RS=07454140
owner: Tellabs Bedford, Inc.
number: 07454140
owner_city: Bedford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071001
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 750 699 filed Jan. 2 2004 and now U.S. Pat. No. 7 277 637 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 437 789 filed Jan. 3 2003 each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The systems and methods described in this patent document relate generally to optical networks and more specifically to fiber to the home optical systems.

Optical networks can be used to deliver communication services to businesses and homes. Optical networks have the capability of delivering a variety of services such as video data and telephony services. The optical network devices that are presently considered for providing residential services typically are devices such as optical network units that are designed to provide services to multiple residential units and are not appropriate for use with a single residential unit.

An apparatus and system are provided for delivering communication services such as video data and telephony services to individual residential units.

According to one embodiment an optical network terminal ONT for providing communication services to a single residential unit comprises a passive optical network interface PI circuit a residential service interface RSI circuit and a power unit. The PI circuit receives optical signals from an optical fiber and transmits optical signals onto the optical fiber. The PI circuit is adapted to convert received optical signals containing voice information to electrical voice ATM cells received optical signals containing data information to electrical data ATM cells and received optical signals containing video signals to electrical video signals. The PI circuit is also adapted to convert electrical voice ATM cells and electrical data ATM cells to optical signals for transmission over the optical fiber.

The RSI circuit that is adapted to convert the electrical voice ATM cells to a telephony format suitable for use at the residential unit and the electrical data ATM cells to a data network format suitable for use at the residential unit. The RSI circuit is also adapted to convert telephony format information received from the residential unit to voice ATM cells and data network format information received from the residential unit to data ATM cells.

The power unit provides power for use in the PI circuit and the RSI circuit. The power unit includes an AC DC converter for converting ac power received from the residential unit to dc power for use in the ONT and backup batteries for providing power when there is an interruption of the ac power.

For simplicity and clarity of illustration elements shown in the figures are not drawn to scale. Also reference numerals that appear in multiple figures indicate that the exemplary systems illustrated in the figures may have corresponding or analogous elements.

Network Element A Network Element NE refers to all the equipment including shelves cards and modules that is managed by one management entity. No equipment can belong to multiple NEs at the same time.

Power Shedding Power Shedding refers to the capability of shutting down unnecessary services in a power failure event in order to preserve a certain number of 20 hours e.g. 8 of battery power for defined minimum services.

Circuit A circuit refers to a set of elements wherein some or all of the elements in a first circuit can also be members of the set of elements making up a second circuit.

With reference to the figures shown in is an exemplary Full Service Access Network FSAN . The exemplary FSAN comprises an Optical Line Terminal OLT at least one Optical Network Terminal ONT and a Passive Optical Network PON coupled between the OLT and the ONT for transporting voice data and or video information to and or from the ONT . The PON optionally could be an ATM Passive Optical Network APON a Broadband Passive Optical Network BPON or some other type of Passive Optical Network.

The OLT preferably comprises a Fiber Termination Shelf FTS . The preferred OLT has a connection to a Voice public switched telephone network PSTN preferably through an optical path and a Head End Gateway HEG . But as an option the HEG could be integrated into the OLT . The preferred OLT also has a connection to a Data ATM network preferably through another optical path .

The OLT transfers voice and data information in a downstream direction to the PON for forwarding to one or more ONTs and transfers voice and data information received from the PON upstream to a voice PSTN and Data ATM network respectively. In addition the preferred OLT has a connection via a data communication network to an Element Management System for provisioning error reporting troubleshooting testing and other network management operations.

The preferred ONT is a Broadband Home Unit BHU . The preferred BHU complies with the ITU T G.983 Full Service Access Network FSAN requirements. The preferred BHU provides broadband and narrow band services to a single residential unit. The narrow band services include telephony services such as POTS and ISDN. The broadband services include high speed data video and home networking. The BHU transports high speed data and telephony PCM traffic received via the PON from the OLT to the residential unit and transports high speed data and telephony PCM traffic received from the residential unit to the OLT via the PON . The BHU also receives video signals via the PON from a video network and provides the video signals to the residential unit.

The preferred PON comprises one or more optical splitters that are coupled between a splitter wavelength division multiplexer WDM Cross Connect and one or more OLTs . The preferred WDM cross connect has a fiber optic connection to a video network such as CATV or DBS a fiber optic connection to the OLT and a fiber optic connection to the PON . The WDM provides connections for transferring video information from the video network to the PON and provides connections for transferring voice and data signals between the OLT and the PON .

Shown in are exemplary block diagrams of FSANs that use OLTs that have different service capabilities. The exemplary FSAN of comprises a FTS platform A that is capable of providing data and voice services for up to 2304 residential units. The exemplary FSAN of comprises a Fiber FTS platform B that is capable of providing data and voice services for up to 1792 residential units. Primary differences between the two platforms include difference in their overall mechanical dimensions and differences in the number of card slots each platform can support. Each platform preferably houses ATM fabric and centralized timing source CTS circuit boards service node interface circuit boards and quad passive optical network PON circuit boards . The exemplary FTS platform A of preferably can include up to 18 quad PON cards and the exemplary FTS platform B of preferably can include up to 100 quad PON cards. Preferably each quad PON card is capable of exchanging traffic with four splitter WDM cross connects . Each splitter WDM cross connect is preferably capable of exchanging traffic with the optical splitters illustrated in which correspond to a 1 8 optical splitter and eight 1 4 optical splitters of . Each 1 4 optical splitter is capable of exchanging traffic with four BHUs .

The exemplary BHU as illustrated in has a number of interfaces for transferring voice data video and other information between a residential unit and an optical network. The exemplary BHU includes an interface for up to four telephony lines such as POTS via RJ 11 connectors. The exemplary BHU also includes an interface for network traffic such as a101100 Base T network via RJ 45. The exemplary BHU further includes an interface for video services such as CATV or DBS via an F connector. The exemplary BHU in addition includes an interface for providing alarm and status indication information to the residential unit an interface for receiving power from the residential unit and an interface for other optional services. For transferring voice data video and other information between the BHU and an optical network such as a PON the exemplary BHU includes an interface for exchanging WDM optical traffic over a single fiber . In the example illustrated in downstream voice data is received at a 1490 NM wavelength downstream video is received at a 1550 NM wavelength and upstream voice and data is transmitted at a 1310 NM wavelength on the fiber .

Overall the preferred BHU is a Fiber To The Home FTTH Optical Network Terminal ONT that includes a PON interface provides telephony services provides data services provides video services provides future service options provides traffic management services and includes power circuits and status indicators.

With regard to its PON interface the preferred BHU transmits upstream data telephony at 1310 NM receives downstream data telephony at 1490 NM and receives downstream Video at 1550 NM. The data rates handled by the preferred BHU include 155.52 Mbps downstream and 155.52 Mbps upstream but may optionally include 622.08 Mbps downstream and 155.52 Mbps upstream 622.08 Mbps downstream and 622.08 Mbps upstream or other bit rate combinations. The preferred BHU supports fixed bandwidth allocation and may optionally support dynamic bandwidth allocation.

Regarding the provision of telephony services the preferred BHU provides a POTS and or ISDN interface. The transport format in the preferred BHU comprises VoATM AAL 2 using PVC and CBR. Optionally the transport format may comprise VoATM AAL 1 and or VoIP over ATM AAL 5 using SVC and rtVBR or other transport formats.

Regarding the provision of data services the preferred BHU provides a 10 100 Base T interface but may provide other interfaces such as a Gigabit Ethernet interface an ATM Forum Interface or a USB interface. The preferred BHU employs fixed bandwidth allocation but optionally may employ dynamic bandwidth allocation.

With regard to providing video services the preferred BHU provides full bandwidth CATV 54 MHz 870 MHz but may optionally provide limited bandwidth CATV 54 MHz 370 MHz DBS 950 MHz 2050 MHz Switched Digital Video SDV and or set top box return. In regards to providing future services options the preferred BHU may make provisions for supporting a Home Wired Network and or a Home Wireless Network.

As illustrated in the preferred BHU comprises a main unit and power unit . The exemplary main unit contains a fiber mechanical protector tray a PON Interface PI module a residential service interface RSI module a future expansion FE module primary electrical protectors electrical terminals and status indicators .

The fiber mechanical protector or fiber tray provides mechanical protection for the WDM optical fiber received by the BHU to reduce the likelihood of the optical fiber from a PON to the BHU from being damaged by mechanical contacts. The fiber tray provides fiber slack management to prevent stresses damages during installation and maintenance. The fiber tray also provides fiber jacket termination. Preferably the fiber tray prevents the connection point for the fiber from being accessible to the general public but provides access for service provider technicians.

The PI module provides a physical interface for the fiber . The PI module receives optical signals from the fiber converts the received optical voice and data ATM signals to electrical ATM cells and converts the received optical video signals to electrical video signals. The converted electrical ATM cells are then forwarded to the RSI module for further processing and the electrical video signals are forwarded to the primary electrical protectors for forwarding to the residential unit. The PI module also converts electrical voice and data ATM cells received from RSI module to optical signals for transmission over the optical fiber . The PI module terminates and generates PON Physical Layer including PLOAM cells. The PI module transports ATM cells to and from the RSI module preferably via a Utopia 2 port. The exemplary PI module also receives DC power from the RSI module and derives other necessary voltages on board.

The RSI module processes ATM packets received from the PI module converts the packets to PCM voice and data and transports the PCM voice and data to the primary electrical protectors . The RSI module also receives PCM voice and data from the primary electrical protectors that were received from the residential unit via the POTS and 10 100Base T Ethernet interfaces at the electrical terminals converts the PCM voice and data to ATM packets and forwards the ATM packets to the PI module for conversion to optical signals and transmission via the PON. The RSI module receives and transmits ATM cells from and to the PI module preferably via a Utopia 2 interface. The exemplary RSI module processes ATM Layer ATM Adaptation Layer and OMCI layer. The exemplary RSI module also provides priority queuing traffic scheduling and traffic shaping.

The RSI module preferably includes a central processor that provides central processing services for many circuits and modules in the BHU . The exemplary RSI module also provides a processor interface for use in the PI module for control functions and a D.C. power interface for providing power to the PI module . The RSI module also preferably provides an additional connector with a Utopia 2 port processor interface optional MII interface and power for future use by an optional future expansion module .

The primary electrical protectors provide electrical protection for the PI module RSI module FE module and external interfaces. The primary electrical protectors provide protection against potential hazards such as lightning power irregularity and EMI that cables and signal lines connected between the residential unit and the BHU may be subject to by providing protection circuits. The primary electrical protectors preferably provide protection for various interfaces such as POTS and or ISDN 10 100Base T Ethernet CATV and or DBS DC power input alarm interfaces and future expansion interfaces. The primary electrical protectors preferably provide protection in accordance with Articles 800 30 and 800 31 of the National Electrical Code ANSI NFPA 70. Preferably the primary electrical protectors are physically located separate from other circuits in the BHU such the PI module the RSI module and the future expansion module . Preferably the primary electrical protectors are not accessible to the general public but accessible for service provider technicians.

The electrical terminals are portion of the main unit that provide physical service connections for the residential unit and test terminals for use by service provider technicians. The electrical terminals are the section of the main unit where the electrical cables that carry electrical signals to the residential unit and the electrical cables that carry electrical signals from the residential unit physically connect to the BHU . The electrical terminals preferably include electrical terminals for POTS and or ISDN 10 100Base T Ethernet CATV and or DBS DC input alarm interfaces and future expansion interfaces. The electrical terminals may optionally include test interfaces such as RJ 11 connectors to allow service provider technicians to test POTS lines a RJ 45 connector to allow service provider technicians to test a 10 100Base T port and an F connector to allow service provider technicians to test CATV channels and or DBS channels. Preferably the electrical terminals are physically located separate from other circuits in the BHU such the PI module the RSI module and the future expansion module . Preferably the electrical terminals are not accessible to the general public but are accessible for service provider technicians. The electrical terminals preferably include a control access medium such as a limited access door to prevent public access and to protect electrical terminals and cable connections.

Preferably the BHU also includes a future expansion module . The future expansion module optionally provides circuitry space physical interfaces and or features that may be added to the BHU in the future. The future expansion module preferably is capable of transporting ATM cells to and from the RSI module via a Utopia 2 port. The future expansion module preferably provides status information to the RSI module . The future expansion module preferably is configured and controlled by the RSI module receives power from the RSI module and provides future interface or feature capabilities such as a home wired networking interface a home wireless networking interface extra data ports such as ATM25 and additional processing resources. The future expansion module preferably includes on board DC DC converters and or voltage regulators and provides test ports. The Future Expansion module preferably is contained within an electronic enclosure along with the PI module and the RSI module . Preferably the future expansion module is not accessible to the general public or service provider technicians and should not be installed in the field.

The exemplary BHU also includes status indicators . The status indicators provide indicators of the status of various subsystems functions and or services of the BHU . The status indicators preferably comprise LEDs that are visible externally to and or internally in the BHU .

The power unit of the exemplary BHU preferably includes an A C to DC converter backup batteries and power indicators . The preferred A C to DC converter has an input for receiving A C input power from an A C input power source an input for receiving 12 VDC from the backup batteries and an output for delivering a 12 VDC output to components of the main unit of the BHU . The preferred A C to DC converter converts the A C input power to a 12 VDC output and also bridges the 12 VDC input received from the backup batteries to the 12 VDC output when the A C input is unavailable. The backup batteries preferably comprise multiple batteries connected in series to provide a 12 VDC power source to the A C to DC Converter as a backup power source. The backup batteries preferably comprise C or D type disposable batteries and optionally could be a UPS arrangement.

The preferred power indicator module provides indicators that provide indications of the status of the A C input and backup batteries . The preferred power indicator module detects when the A C input is unavailable and when the backup batteries are providing a low voltage output. The preferred power indicator module includes a Battery Low Failed LED an AC Failed LED a Battery Low Failed Audible Alarm a Battery Low Failed Audible Alarm Manual Disable and a serial interface to and from the Main Unit . Preferably the LEDs provide a green indication when they are indicating that the status of the monitored function is within tolerances and provide a red or other color indication when they indicate that the status of the monitored function is not within tolerances. Preferably all indicators can be viewed or heard without opening the housing unit for the power unit .

The BHU employs a power shedding algorithm on A C Fail with preferably four programmable configurations. When the BHU is operating on batteries it goes into a power shed mode. If the AC is restored the BHU will stop operating in the power shed mode and operate in a full operation mode. Preferably the customer at installation is provided with an option of which services will be operational during power shed mode operation. Preferably the customer can choose one of the following options 1 a selected POTS ISDN port is on 2 a selected POTS ISDN port and a selected data link are on 3 two selected POTS ISDN ports are on or 4 two selected POTS ISDN ports and a selected data link are on. The power shedding mode allows the BHU to shut down unnecessary services in a power failure event in order to preserve a certain number of hours e.g. 8 of battery power for defined minimum services.

Now with reference to illustrated is a block diagram of an exemplary PON interface module . The PI module is preferably contained within an electronic enclosure along with the RSI module and the Future Expansion module. The exemplary PON interface module comprises a dual port bi directional WDM that provides a physical interface for an optical fiber from the Passive Optical Networks PON . The dual port bi directional WDM also performs a wavelength division multiplexing function in the PI module .

The exemplary PI module also comprises a video optical to electrical conversion circuit and a user data optical to electrical conversion circuit . The optical to electrical conversion circuits and respectively convert received optical signals to electrical signals having video content and electrical signals having user data content.

The exemplary PI module further comprises a clock and data recovery circuit . The clock and data recovery circuit recovers clock information and data and telephony ATM cells from the electrical signals having user data content. The clock and data recovery circuit also processes PON physical layer according to the ITU T G.983.1.

The exemplary PI module also comprises a video signal recovery circuit . The video signal recovery circuit is operative to recover CAN and or DBS video signals and to provide the recovered CAN and DBS video signals to the primary electrical protectors .

The exemplary PI module also comprises a PON transceiver . The PON transceiver transports ATM cells to and from the RSI module preferably via a Utopia 2 port . The PON transceiver also preferably provides status information to the RSI module .

The exemplary PI module comprises a user data electrical to optical conversion circuit . The electrical to optical conversion circuit converts electrical ATM cells received from the PON transceiver to optical signals and forwards the optical signals to the dual port bi directional WDM for transmission over the optical fiber .

The exemplary PI module comprises a control PLD circuit . The control circuit receives control instructions from the RSI module and based on those control instructions exchanges control status and test instructions and information with other components of the PI module . The control circuit also preferably provides status information to the RSI module and provides test ports and loop backs.

The exemplary PI module further comprises a power distribution circuit . The power distribution circuit preferably receives power from the RSI module . The power distribution circuit also preferably comprises on board DC DC converters and or voltage regulators and possible fusing for meeting the power needs of the PI module .

Now with reference to illustrated is a block diagram of an exemplary Residential Service Interface RSI module . The RSI module transports ATM cells to and from the PI module via a Utopia 2 port . The RSI module also preferably transports ATM cells to and from the future expansion module via another Utopia 2 port . The RSI module preferably configures and controls the whole BHU in accordance with requests by the OLT via OMCI cells. The RSI module preferably collects status information from various components of the BHU and transports the status information to the OLT via OMCI cells.

The exemplary RSI module comprises a communication processor . The communication processor processes and manages ATM Layer ATM Adaptation Layer and OMCI layer. The communication processor also provides priority queuing traffic scheduling and traffic shaping. The communication processor performs networking processing protocol processing and central control and status collection. The communication processor is also usable for testing and operation of other modules and components in the BHU .

The exemplary RSI module also comprises supporting elements for supporting the operation of the communication processor such as a crystal oscillator memory such as SDRAM and transceiver and buffer circuits which allows for an expansion bus for a future expansion module.

For providing telephony services the exemplary RSI module comprises a DSP for processing voice channels. The DSP may also be used for voice enhancements such as compression. The exemplary RSI module also comprises a quad CODEC and a quad SLIC for further processing telephony signals. The exemplary RSI module also comprises a MLT circuit for providing remote mechanized line testing capability for multiple POTS ISDN interfaces. The POTS ISDN interfaces are coupled to the primary electrical protectors.

The exemplary RSI module preferably comprises a PCM timing circuit . The PCM timing circuit preferably includes a phased locked loop circuit for allowing for voice processing to be phase locked to the system timing reference.

For providing data services the exemplary RSI module comprises a 10 100 Base T Ethernet Physical circuit and a magnetic circuit for providing a 10 100 Base T Ethernet interface. The 10 100 Base T Ethernet interface is coupled to the primary electrical protectors.

The exemplary RSI module preferably comprises a magnetic and fusing circuit for receiving power from the electrical terminals and for passing the received energy to a DC circuit . The DC circuit preferably comprises DC DC converter and or voltage regulator circuits. The DC circuit provides energy for meeting the power needs of the RSI module and for providing energy to meet the power needs of the PI module and the Future Expansion module . The exemplary RSI module also preferably comprises voltages and battery monitors for monitoring voltages and battery levels in the BHU .

The exemplary RSI module preferably provides a system monitoring capability. To support the system monitoring capability the RSI module preferably comprises a push button reset circuit that provides a mechanism for resetting the unit. The RSI module also preferably comprises a control PLD LEDs and an inventory circuit . The LEDs preferably provide visual status indications for link status voice status CATV status DBS status data link and data activity. Status indications may also be transmitted in a manner that allows a technician to receive them electronically. Test capabilities of the exemplary RSI module includes test points ports USB debug port push button reset forced and watchdog timers.

The exemplary RSI module also includes boot flash memory for use by various modules such as the PI Module the RSI module and the FE module when booting up. The exemplary RSI module may optionally include development Interfaces such as a JTAG port and or USB port for use during development manufacturing and or testing.

Regarding the operation of the exemplary RSI module the exemplary RSI module transports ATM cells to and from the PI module via a Utopia 2 port. The exemplary RSI module is capable of transporting ATM cells to and from the Future Expansion module via another Utopia 2 port. The exemplary RSI module can configure and control the entire BHU upon request by the OLT via OMCI cells. The exemplary RSI module collects status information from various BHU modules maps status information into OMCI cells and transports OMCI cells back to the OLT. The exemplary RSI module provides power to the PI module and the Future Expansion module. The exemplary RSI module processes and manages ATM Layer ATM Adaptation Layer and OMCI layer. The exemplary RSI module provides 4 POTS and 1 10 100Base T Ethernet interfaces. The exemplary RSI module includes an on board communication processor for networking processing protocol processing and central control and status collection. The exemplary RSI module provides priority queuing traffic scheduling and traffic shaping for ATM traffic. The exemplary RSI module monitors voltages and battery levels. The exemplary RSI module accommodates inventory data storage. The exemplary RSI module may optionally provide traffic policing for ATM traffic if an ATM UNI interface is added.

Referring now to illustrated is the signal flow in the preferred BHU . In the downstream direction optical signals are received from a PON via an optical fiber and directed to the dual port bi directional WDM circuit in the PI module . In the WDM circuit the optical signals are wavelength de multiplexed into two separate ports. Preferably 1490 NM signals are received that contain voice data and control information and 1550 NM signals are received that include video information. The 1490 NM signals are preferably routed to one port and the 1550 NM signals are routed to another port.

The 1550 NM optical signals containing video information are directed to an optical to electrical converter where the signals are converted to electrical signals. The converted electrical signals are directed to a video recovery circuit where the video signals are recovered. The recovered video signals are amplified then directed in turn to the primary electrical protectors electrical terminals and ultimately to a residential unit.

The 1490 NM optical signals containing voice data and or control signals are directed to an optical to electrical converter where the signals are converted to electrical signals. The converted electrical signals are directed to a clock and data recovery circuit where clock and NRZ traffic data are recovered.

A system clock reference is derived from the recovered incoming clock. The BHU also uses the recovered incoming clock to transport traffic data upstream. The BHU provides the system clock reference to internal devices that process PON layer and PCM voice traffic.

The PON transceiver receives the recovered traffic data which may include voice data and control information. The PON transceiver converts the traffic data from serial to parallel and performs bit and byte synchronization searches for cell boundaries and delineates ATM cells. The PON transceiver also checks and corrects HEC with regard to the ATM cells. The ATM cells are processed using VPI cell filtering header translation and optional de churning. A churning key will be provided for upstream traffic if requested by the FTS OLT. Voice data signaling control and OMCI cells are passed through a Utopia 2 interface to the communications processor in the RSI module . Idle cells are not passed but discarded. PLOAM cells are framed up recovered extracted and terminated at the PON Interface module . A 1 KHz reference clock is recovered from synchronization field of the first PLOAM cell and is used to synchronize with a local timing counter so the BHU local timing counter can lock on the FTS OLT counter.

Grants are extracted from PLOAM cells. CRC for each group of grants is checked. Grants are processed when there no CRC errors. The results determine bandwidth allocation cell slot assignment ranging and type of data that can be sent at each time slot.

Messages are also extracted from PLOAM cells. Message CRC is checked. If there is no CRC error message will then be processed. All OAM related alarms or threshold crossing alerts triggered by events are transported via messages in PLOAM cells. Also all ranging related messages are mapped in the message field of PLOAM cells. Once the BHU is in frame sync the message field is processed independent of the correctness of PLOAM cell header. No error correction is applied to this received message field.

BIP of PLOAM cell is also verified. Each BIP in each PLOAM cell is used for monitoring the BER on the downstream link. Each BIP covers 27 ATM cells and its PLOAM cell. BIP is an estimate for the real BER when the BER is smaller than 10E04.

The PI module monitors all OAM errors related to PON Physical Layer such as TF LOS PEE SUF OAML SD LCD FRML ERR MEM DACT and MIS.

The RSI module receives voice data signaling control and OMCI cells from the PI module via a Utopia 2 interface. The RSI module provides priority queuing scheduling traffic shaping Ethernet bridging and other services. The RSI module also manages physical interfaces such as Utopia 2 10 100Base T and peripheral ports.

The RSI module terminates ATM AAL 1 2 voice cells. The communication processor routes PCM voice traffic to the DSP . The DSP processes voice channels. The PCM voice channels are sent in turn to the CODEC the SLIC the primary electrical protectors the electrical terminals and finally to the residential unit via telephony lines.

The RSI module also terminates ATM AAL 5 data cells. The communication processor routes user data traffic to the Ethernet PHY device . User data traffic from Ethernet PHY device is sent in turn to the primary electrical protectors the electrical terminals and finally to the residential unit via a data port such as 10 100Base T Ethernet.

With reference to in the upstream direction PCM voice traffic is received from a residence via telephony lines. The PCM voice traffic is directed to the electrical terminals and then to the primary electrical protectors . From there the PCM voice traffic is sent to and processed in turn at the SLIC CODEC and DSP . The communication processor next segments and assembles the PCM traffic data into ATM AAL 1 2 cells.

User data traffic is received from a residence via a data port. The User data traffic is directed in turn to the electrical terminals the primary electrical protectors and then to a PHY device . The communication processor next segments and assembles the User data traffic into ATM AAL 5 cells. All ATM traffic from the RSI module is queued scheduled possible shaped if required and finally transmitted to the PI module via a Utopia 2 interface.

The PON transceiver in the PI module then combines received traffic from the RSI module with data generated in the PI module such as PLOAM cells and mini slots and transmits the combined information onto a single parallel bus to the E O conversion circuit . The data is preferably formatted according to the G.983.1 upstream format. The E O conversion circuit serializes and converts the data to an optical signal. The optical signal is wavelength multiplexed at the WDM device transmitted onto a fiber at a 1310 NM wavelength and transported upstream to the FTS OLT via a PON.

With regard to telephonic services the preferred BHU supports up to four POTS interfaces. The POTS interface preferably comprises a standard RJ 11 connector. The preferred BHU operates PON interface and voice traffic with clock extracted from the PON interface. The preferred BHU supports Constant Bit Rate CBR for telephone services also supports rtVBR real time variable bit rate . The preferred BHU is capable of providing telephony services using VoATM AAL 2 transport. The preferred BHU supports GR 303 and INA TDM network logical interfaces. The preferred BHU supports Robbed Bit CAS for POTS interface. The preferred BHU complies with BLES 1.0 ATM Forum VMoA 000145 Profile 9 G.711 PCM with 44 Byte packet size. The preferred BHU provides echo cancellation according to G.168. The preferred BHU provided fax modem tone detection and response appropriately such as no echo cancellation and voice compression. The preferred BHU supports mu law coding. The combination of the preferred BHU and an external HEG provides all CLASS features and on hook transmission capabilities. These services meet the requirements of Section 3.4 of GR909. The preferred BHU is able to set loop back configuration before SLIC and after SLIC. The preferred BHU provides Mechanize Loop Test MLT capabilities that meet the requirements of GR 909. The preferred BHU provides SIP capability.

The preferred BHU can optionally support an ISDN interface in place of or in combination with a POTS interface or some other interface. The preferred BHU can optionally support real time Variable Bit Rate rtVBR for telephony services. The preferred BHU may optionally provide Mechanize Loop Test MLT capabilities. The preferred BHU may optionally be capable of providing voice telephony services using VoATM AAL 1 transport. The preferred BHU may optionally be capable of providing voice telephony services using VoIP over ATM AAL 5 transport. The preferred BHU may optionally support voice compression. The preferred BHU may optionally detect fax and analog modem and be capable of processing these non compressing data formats appropriately. The preferred BHU may optionally support the following TDM network logical interfaces TR 08 Mode 1 2 V5.1 and V5.2. The preferred BHU may optionally support 2B D CCS for V5.x ISDN interface. The preferred BHU may optionally support 3 DSO CCS for GR 303 ISDN interface. The preferred BHU may optionally comply with others ATM Forum VMoA 000145 profiles. The preferred BHU may optionally comply with Megaco H.248. The preferred BHU may optionally support other vocoders. The preferred BHU may optionally provide A law coding.

With regard to data services the preferred BHU supports one Ethernet 10 100Base T data interface. The Ethernet 10 100Base T data interface preferably comprises a standard RJ 45 connector. The connection is preferably a standard DCE connection. The preferred BHU is able to set 10 100Base T Ethernet interface for 10BaseT or 100BaseT with half duplex or full duplex or auto sense configuration. The default configuration preferably is auto sense. The preferred BHU is able to provide information regarding the operational state of Ethernet interface to the OLT . Preferably the OLT enables or disables the Ethernet interface in the preferred BHU . The preferred BHU supports Unspecified Bit Rate UBR and UBR with Minimum Desired Cell Rate MDCR for data services with the default preferably being UBR. The BHU optionally supports non real time Variable Bit Rate nrtVBR . The preferred BHU supports both IEEE 802.3 and Ethernet frame formats.

The BHU may optionally provide an ATM UNI interface. If the BHU provides an ATM UNI interface the BHU preferably supports ATM Forum UNI 3.1 and or ATM Forum UNI 4.0. If the BHU supports ATM UNI interface the BHU preferably has the ability to simultaneously support both ATM Forum UNI 3.1 and ATM Forum UNI 4.0 on all of its ATM UNI interfaces.

The BHU preferably supports PPP over Ethernet by forwarding PPPoE packets between LAN and WAN. The preferred BHU will not need to take an active part in the discovery phase but will permit the passage of PPPoE frames between LAN and WAN ports. The BHU preferably provides a PPPoE only mode whereby the only frames forwarded are those with EtherTypes of 0x8863 and 0x8864. This provides a method of filtering local LAN traffic from WAN bound traffic. This ensures that local LAN traffic will not be bridged onto the WAN interface saving bandwidth on the WAN interface. The preferred BHU supports the spanning tree function described in IEEE 802.1 D. This function could be enable disable remotely via the OLT . The preferred BHU supports broadcast and multicast traffic forwarding. Broadcast or multicast traffic from the LAN is preferably forwarded to all configured WAN ports. Broadcast or multicast traffic from the WAN ports is preferably forwarded only to the LAN port not to the other WAN ports.

The BHU preferably provides a minimum of 250 filter entries that are shared between static entries and dynamic entries. The proportion of entries allocated to each type preferably is not fixed and any entries not used for static entries are preferably available for dynamic entries. At least 25 of the filter table size preferably is available for static entries. Furthermore the entries preferably are shared across all LAN and WAN bridge ports. Although many WAN ports may be configured preferably a single WAN port and single LAN are configured. Therefore the filter table entries are preferably shared in a flexible manner between bridge ports. The table entries preferably are split between static and dynamic filter tables with up to Filter Statistics. For dynamic filtering the filter table preferably is updated from the MAC self learning process by adding the source MAC addresses of received upstream and downstream packets to the dynamic filtering database if not already present . If new static entries are configured and the filter database is full then the oldest dynamic entries preferably are removed to allow the new static entries to be added to the filter database. If the database is full then the oldest dynamic entry preferably is removed from the database and the new entry added in its place. The preferred BHU maintains a count of the number of times this circumstance occurs. The aging timeout for dynamic entries preferably is 300 s by default but preferably is configurable from the OLT in the range of 10 s 106 s 11.57 days in multiple steps.

Preferably it is possible to enable disable learning under the OLT control on a BHU basis. The bridge function preferably provides the filtering function process defined in IEEE 802.1 D. It preferably provides static and dynamic filtering capabilities. The BHU preferably supports the learning bridge function described in IEEE 802.1 D. This function preferably can be enabled disabled remotely via the OLT . Initially the bridge will not know the addresses of the hosts connected to the LAN and WAN interfaces. When it receives a packet from a host it will examine the source MAC address and store it in the filter table along with the port number on which the packet was received i.e. it will learn the MAC address. If the packet was from the LAN interface it will forward it to all configured WAN ports. If the packet was received from a WAN port it will be forwarded to the LAN port only. Subsequently it may receive a packet with a destination address that is present in the filter table i.e. an address that has been learnt. The port number stored in the filter table will tell the bridge which port this host is connected to. The bridge will then forward the packet on this port. If it happens that the port is the same one as the packet was received on then the packet is not forwarded it is just dropped. This situation will occur for traffic within entirely within the LAN or WAN .

The BHU may optionally have an ATM Forum or USB interface for data services. HomePNA optionally may be supported via the Ethernet interface using a HomePNA to Ethernet bridge device. The BHU preferably supports native LAN service set up and tear down as per Appendix 1.2.13 1.2.14 ITU T G.983.2. PPPoA preferably is implemented if the BHU contains an IP router. Such a router acts as the default gateway for the home network. The BHU preferably provides PPTP to PPPoA relay function. The BHU preferably supports Available Bit Rate ABR and Guaranteed Frame Rate GFR with the default of UBR.

With regard to video services the preferred BHU supports Direct To The Home DTTH video transport using WDM multiplexing. The optional video capable interface supports CATV 54 MHz 870 MHz . The BHU may optionally include video capable optional feature and is video ready that is capable of providing video services via a remote software download and or provisioning message. The BHU video receiver wavelength preferably complies with the ITU T Draft G.983.3 wavelength allocation plan. The optional video interface preferably comprises a standard 75 52 F type female coaxial connector that supports standard RG 6 coaxial cable. With use of the BHU installation of video service preferably does not impact service to any other customer on the PON and does not impact delivery of other services to the same BHU. The BHU preferably is able to turn on off the CATV output. The BHU preferably is able to detect the live presence of the CATV input. The CATV based video system supports analog and or digital video.

The preferred BHU optionally has a DBS video interface 950 MHz 2050 MHz and can turn on off the DBS output. The preferred BHU is able to detect the live presence of the DBS input. The CATV based video system preferably supports 64 QAM digital video. The BHU preferably provides a digital based return path. Switched Digital Video SDV optionally may be supported preferably when 622.08 Mbps downstream is implemented. The CATV based video system preferably supports 256 QAM digital video.

The BHU optionally has have several modes of usage such as a BHU installation mode a BHU removal mode a BHU fault management detection prevention mode a BHU provisioning mode a BHU surf net mode a BHU watch TV mode and a BHU phone call mode.

The BHU installation mode may include Power ON POST Ranging OMCC establishment Persistence Retrieval MIB Synchronization and others. The BHU removal mode may include BHU reinstallation BHU move to new location and others. The BHU Fault Management Detection Prevention mode may include Component Failure Fault Isolation Manufacturing Component Failure Fault Isolation POST Component Failure MLT OAM Check Video Status Check A C Power Status Check Home Ethernet Link Status Input Power Change such as A C failure and Switch to D C D C low and D C failure High Power on SLIC High Current on SLIC Get Inventory MIB Audit Resynch and others. The provisioning mode may include Ethernet Set up Tear down POTS Set up Tear down Video enable disable Power Shedding Strategy 1 4 Setting Software Download such as New Version and Old Version and others. The Surf Net mode may include MAC Aging and Too Many Users MACs . The Phone Call mode may include originate call GR 303 BLES DTMF originate call GR 303 BLES rotary phone terminate call GR 303 BLES send fax Modem FSK receive fax modem call and others such as Silence Echo Call Waiting Caller ID Security System .

The structural arrangements and steps described herein and shown in the drawings are examples of structures systems or methods having elements or steps corresponding to the elements or steps of the invention recited in the claims. This written description and drawings may enable those skilled in the art to make and use embodiments having alternative elements or steps that likewise correspond to the elements or steps of the invention recited in the claims. The intended scope of the invention thus includes other structures systems or methods that do not differ from the literal language of the claims and further includes other structures systems or methods with insubstantial differences from the literal language of the claims.

