---

title: Method and apparatus for applying codes having pre-defined properties
abstract: A method for specifying pulse characteristics applies codes having pre-defined characteristics to a layout. The layout can be sequentially subdivided into at least first and second components that have the same or different sizes. The method applies a first code having first pre-defined properties to the first component and a second code having second pre-defined properties to the second component. The pre-defined properties may relate to the auto-correlation property, the cross-correlation property, and spectral properties, as examples. The codes can be used to specify subcomponents within a frame, and characteristic values (range-based, or discrete) within the subcomponents.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07711026&OS=07711026&RS=07711026
owner: Time Domain Corporation
number: 07711026
owner_city: Huntsville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070919
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 638 192 filed Aug. 15 2000 now abandoned which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 592 250 filed Jun. 12 2000 now abandoned.

The following applications of common assignee may contain common disclosure with the present application 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 638 192 entitled A METHOD FOR SPECIFYING NON TEMPORAL PULSE CHARACTERISTICS filed Aug. 15 2000 now abandoned.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 637 878 entitled A METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR POSITIONING PULSES USING A LAYOUT HAVING NON ALLOWABLE REGIONS filed Aug. 15 2000 now abandoned.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 638 510 entitled A METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR POSITIONING PULSES IN TIME filed Aug. 15 2000 issued Oct. 25 2005 as U.S. Pat. No. 6 959 032.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 638 151 entitled A METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MAPPING PULSES TO A NON FIXED LAYOUT filed Aug. 15 2000 issued Dec. 5 2006 as U.S. Pat. No. 7 145 954.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 638 152 entitled A METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR SPECIFYING PULSE CHARACTERISTICS USING A CODE THAT SATISFIES PREDEFINED CRITERIA filed Aug. 15 2000 now abandoned.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 638 153 entitled METHOD FOR SPECIFYING PULSE CHARACTERISTICS USING CODES filed Aug. 15 2000 now abandoned.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 638 154 entitled A METHOD FOR SPECIFYING NON ALLOWABLE PULSE CHARACTERISTICS filed Aug. 15 2000 now abandoned.

The present invention relates to impulse transmission systems and more particularly to a method of applying codes for specifying characteristics of pulses in an impulse transmission system.

As the availability of communication bandwidth in the increasingly crowded frequency spectrum is becoming a scarce and valuable commodity Time Modulated Ultra Wideband TM UWB technology provides an excellent alternative for offering significant communication bandwidth particularly for various wireless communications applications. Because TM UWB communication systems are based on communicating extremely short duration pulses e.g. pico seconds in duration such systems are also known as impulse radio systems. Impulse radio systems were first described in a series of patents including U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 641 317 issued Feb. 3 1987 4 813 057 issued Mar. 14 1989 4 979 186 issued Dec. 18 1990 and 5 363 057 issued Nov. 8 1994 to Larry W. Fullerton and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 677 927 issued Oct. 14 1997 5 687 169 issued Nov. 11 1997 and 5 832 035 issued Nov. 3 1998 to Larry W. Fullerton et al. These patents are incorporated herein by reference.

Multiple access impulse radio systems are radically different from conventional Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA and Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA systems. Unlike such systems which use continuous sinusoidal waveforms for transmitting information a conventional impulse radio transmitter emits a low power electromagnetic train of short pulses which are shaped to approach a Gaussian monocycle. As a result the impulse radio transmitter uses very little power to generate noise like communication signals for use in multiple access communications radar and positioning applications among other things. In the multi access communication applications the impulse radio systems depend in part on processing gain to achieve rejection of unwanted signals. Because of the extremely high achievable processing gains the impulse radio systems are relatively immune to unwanted signals and interference which limit the performance of systems that use continuous sinusoidal waveforms. The high processing gains of the impulse radio systems also provide much higher dynamic ranges than those commonly achieved by the processing gains of other known spread spectrum systems.

Impulse radio communication systems transmit and receive the pulses at precisely controlled time intervals in accordance with a time hopping code. As such the time hopping code defines a communication channel that can be considered as a unidirectional data path for communicating information at high speed. In order to communicate the information over such channels typical impulse radio transmitters use position modulation which is a form of time modulation to position the pulses in time based on instantaneous samples of a modulating information signal. The modulating information signal may for example be a multi state information signal such as a binary signal. Under this arrangement a modulator varies relative positions of a plurality of pulses on a pulse by pulse basis in accordance with the modulating information signal and a specific time hopping code that defines the communication channel.

In applications where the modulating information signal is a binary information signal each binary state may modulate the time position of more than one pulse to generate a modulated coded timing signal that comprises a train of identically shaped pulses that represent a single data bit. The impulse transmitter applies the generated pulses to a specified transmission medium via a coupler such as an antenna which electromagnetically radiates the pulses for reception by an impulse radio receiver. The impulse radio receiver typically includes a single direct conversion stage. Using a correlator the conversion stage coherently converts the received pulses to a baseband signal based on a priori knowledge of the time hopping code. Because of the correlation properties of the selected time hopping codes the correlator integrates the desired received pulses coherently while the undesired noise signals are integrated non coherently such that by comparing the coherent and non coherent integration results the impulse receiver can recover the communicated information.

Conventional spread spectrum code division multiple access SS CDMA techniques accommodate multiple users by permitting them to use the same frequency bandwidth at the same time. Direct sequence CDMA systems employ pseudo noise PN codewords generated at a transmitter to spread the bandwidth occupied by transmitted data beyond the minimum required by the data. The conventional SS CDMA systems employ a family of orthogonal or quasi orthogonal spreading codes with a pilot spreading code sequence synchronized to the family of codes. Each user is assigned one of the spreading codes as a spreading function. One such spread spectrum system is described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 901 307 entitled SPREAD SPECTRUM MULTIPLE ACCESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM USING SATELLITE OR TERRESTRIAL REPEATERS by Gilhousen et al.

Unlike direct sequence spread spectrum systems the time hopping code for impulse radio communications is not necessary for energy spreading because the monocycle pulses themselves have an inherently wide bandwidth. Instead the impulse radio systems use the time hoping codes for channelization energy smoothing in the frequency domain and interference suppression. The time hoping code defines a relative position of each pulse within a group of pulses or pulse train such that the combination of pulse positions defines the communications channel. In order to convey information on such communication channel each state of a multi state information signal varies a relative pulse position by a predefined time shift such that a modulated coded timing signal is generated comprising a train of pulses each with timing corresponding to the combination of the time position coding and the multi state modulation.

In one conventional binary approach pulses are time modulated forward or backward about a nominal position. More specifically each pulse is time modulated by adjusting its position within a time frame to one of two or more possible times. For example in order to send a 0 binary bit during the time frame the pulse may be offset from a nominal position of the time frame by about 50 pico seconds. For a 1 binary state the pulse may be offset from the nominal position by about 50 pico seconds. Conventional coders that generate the time hoping code do so in response to a periodic timing signal that corresponds to the data rate of the multi state information signal. The data rate of the impulse radio transmission may for example be a fraction of a periodic timing signal that is used as a time base or time reference.

In practice decoding errors are minimized using distinctive time hopping codes with suitable autocorrelation and cross correlation properties. The cross correlation between any two time hopping codes should be low for minimal interference between multiple users in a communications system or between multiple target reflections in radar and positioning applications. At the same time the autocorrelation property of a time hoping code should be steeply peaked with small side lobes. Maximally peaked time hopping code autocorrelation yields optimal acquisition and synchronization properties for communications radar and positioning applications.

Various coding schemes with known correlation characteristics are available. For example algebraic codes Quadratic Congruential QC codes Hyperbolic Congruential HC codes and optical codes have been suggested in the past for coding in impulse radio systems. Generally based on known assumptions the coding schemes guarantee a maximum number of pulse coincidences i.e. hits for any defined time frame or time frame shift during which the codes are repeated. For example HC codes are guaranteed a maximum of two hits for any sub frame or frame shift.

McCorkle in U.S. Pat. No. 5 847 677 discloses a random number generator for generating a pseudo random code for use with jittered pulse repetition interval radar systems. The code is generated by a random number generator that possesses certain attributes desirable for a jittered radar. As disclosed the attributes related to a flat frequency spectrum a nearly perfect spike for an autocorrelation function a controllable absolute minimum and maximum interval long sequences that do not repeat and a reasonable average pulse rate.

One known coding technique for an impulse radio is disclosed by Barrett in U.S. Pat. No. 5 610 907 entitled Ultrafast Time hopping CDMA RF Communications Code As Carrier Multichannel Operation High data Rate Operation and Data Rate on Demand. According to the disclosed techniques two levels of coding are used major orthogonal codes are applied to provide multiple channels and forward error correction FEC codes are applied to information data before transmission. The disclosed system relies on dividing time into repetitive super frames frames and sub frames. As disclosed a super frame corresponds to a time interval of about 1 millisecond representing one repetition of a code pattern where as a frame is defined as a time interval of about 1 microsecond divided according to a code length. A sub frame corresponds to a short time interval of about 1 nano second during which a pulse is time positioned.

TM UWB technology may be used in a wide variety of applications such as multiple access communication systems positioning systems radar systems etc. Such applications have varying requirements for correlation and spectral properties of the pulse trains they employ. The described time hopping code methods produce codes that can be employed to address either a spectral property requirement or a correlation property requirement of given application but are limited in their ability to address both correlation and spectral property requirements. As a result such codes are limited in their ability to address both signal acquisition and channelization requirements of a given TM UWB application requiring tradeoffs to be made when selecting a time hopping code. Because of the wide variety of TM UWB technology applications and limitations to current code generation and mapping methods there exists a need for code generation and mapping methods that satisfy correlation property and spectral property requirements of TM UWB applications.

Briefly according to the present invention a sequential and or nested combination of two or more codes is used to specify pulse characteristics e.g. pulse time positions such that the correlation and or spectral properties of the combined codes are realized. The present invention provides a method for specifying pulse characteristics that specifies a layout that is subdivided into at least a first component and a second component. The present invention applies a first code having first pre defined properties to the first component and applies a second code having second pre defined properties to the second component. The first code may be generated using a numerical code generation technique for example one with nearly ideal autocorrelation properties. In one embodiment the numerical code generation technique can include Welch Costas Array Golomb Costas Array or Hyperbolic Congruential code generation techniques. The second code may also be generated using a numerical code generation technique for example one with nearly ideal cross correlation properties. In one embodiment the numerical code generation technique can include Quadratic Congruential Linear Congruential or Hyperbolic Congruential code generation techniques.

According to some of the more detailed features of the present invention the first and second components may have the same or different sizes. In an exemplary embodiment the layout is sequentially subdivided into a first or a second subdivision component. In one embodiment the first and second subdivision components can have the same or different sizes.

According to some of the more detailed features of the present invention the first and second components may contain discrete values. In one embodiment the discrete values can be evenly distributed or non evenly distributed within the components.

According to some of the more detailed features of the present invention the first and second components may be sequentially subdivided into at least a first or a second subdivision component containing discrete values. In one embodiment the first and second subdivision components can have the same or different sizes. In one embodiment the discrete values can be evenly distributed or non evenly distributed within the subdivision components.

According to other detailed features of the invention the first and second pre defined properties may relate to a spectral property or a correlation property such as an auto correlation property or a cross correlation property. When predefined properties relate to spectral or correlation properties the first and second pre defined properties may relate to different spectral and correlation properties. For example the first predefined properties may relate to the auto correlation properties and the second predefined properties may relate to the cross correlation properties.

In another embodiment of the invention the first or second code is generated using a numerical code generation technique with nearly ideal spectral properties. In an embodiment the numerical code generation technique can include linear congruential pseudorandom number generator additive lagged Fibonacci pseudorandom number generator linear feedback shift register lagged Fibonacci shift register chaotic code generator or optimal Golomb ruler code generator techniques.

In another embodiment of the invention the first code specifies subdivision components within which pulse characteristics are to be specified and the second code specifies discrete values within the subdivision components specified by the first code.

In another embodiment of the invention first and second codes are mapped to the first component and first and second codes are mapped to the second component where each first code specifies subdivision components within which pulse characteristics are to be specified and each second code specifies discrete values within the subdivision components specified by the corresponding first code.

In the figures like reference numbers generally indicate identical functionally similar and or structurally similar elements. The figure in which an element first appears is indicated by the leftmost digit s in the reference number.

The present invention provides a method of using a combination of two or more generated codes to specify characteristics of pulses within a pulse train e.g. time positions. Usually each generated code consists of a set or a number of code element values. The method involves defining one or more characteristic value layouts generating two or more codes with pre defined properties and mapping the codes to the characteristic value layout s . In one exemplary embodiment a combination of codes are mapped to sequential layouts. In another embodiment a combination of codes are nested such that one code specifies subcomponents within a layout while the second code specifies discrete values within the subcomponents specified by the first code. In another embodiment a combination of nested codes are mapped to sequential layouts.

The detailed description that follows describes the use of the present invention to specify a pulse time position characteristic. However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention can be used to specify non temporal pulse characteristics e.g. pulse amplitude pulse width etc. without departing from the scope of the invention. Exemplary embodiments of non temporal pulse characteristic layouts and code mapping are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 638 192 entitled A METHOD FOR SPECIFYING NON TEMPORAL PULSE CHARACTERISTICS filed Aug. 15 2000 now abandoned which is hereby incorporated by reference.

In a pulse transmission system a sequence of pulses known as a pulse train is transmitted and received over a period of time such that the relative positioning of the pulses in time defines a channel used by the system to transmit information. Time period s can be laid out in a multitude of ways to accommodate a wide variety of pulse transmission system applications. One approach involves a value range layout where a period of time is divided into smaller and smaller components. The division is used to achieve a desired component resolution in order to facilitate mapping of a code element value to a time position value that resides within a layout component which corresponds to some range of time values.

The following describes this process in detail. Referring back to a layout parameter t can be specified which defines the length of a time period layout wherein the time period has a relative minimum time value of t t 0 and a relative maximum time value of t t . A second layout parameter N can be specified to divide the time period layout into one or more frames of the same size or of different sizes with each frame indexed by n having a minimum time value t n and a maximum time value t n where n 1 to N.

Multiple frame sizes may be employed to accommodate multiple data stream systems to add an encryption dimension and or for many other purposes. For example one or more acquisition frames and or one or more header frames can be intermixed with one or more frames containing user data wherein the acquisition header and user data frames have different sizes.

Alternatively same size frames may be employed such that acquisition header and user data are combined into a single data stream that is deciphered via a communications protocol once the data stream is captured. The number and size of frames used in a given layout can also be tailored to meet specific application requirements. They can also be used to remain within system implementation limits to achieve one or more of a variety of system characteristics in areas such as performance i.e. bit rate reliability i.e. bit error rate system simplicity ease of use etc. and or for many other reasons.

When different sized frames are employed minimum and maximum time values are specified for each frame . The minimum time value for a given frame t n may equal the maximum time value of the preceding frame t n 1 or t . The maximum time value of a given frame t n may equal the minimum time value for the following frame t n 1 or t . When same sized frames are employed the time period is evenly divided such that t n t n is equal for each frame n.

An array of layout parameters N N can be specified to subdivide frames into subcomponents. For example frames may be subdivided into subcomponents of the same or different sizes with each subcomponent indexed by m of frame indexed by n having a minimum time value t n m and a maximum time value t n m where n 1 to Nand m 1 to N n .

Multiple subcomponent sizes may be employed to accommodate multiple bit rates to achieve desirable correlation properties to add an encryption dimension and or for many other purposes as will be recognized by persons skilled in the art. As with frames the number and size of subcomponents for a given frame used in a given layout can also be tailored to meet specific application requirements. These parameters may also be selected to remain within system implementation limits to achieve one or more of a variety of system characteristics in areas such as performance i.e. bit rate reliability i.e. bit error rate system simplicity ease of use etc. and or for many other reasons.

When different sized subcomponents are employed minimum and maximum time values are specified for each subcomponent of each frame . The minimum time value for a given subcomponent t n m may equal the maximum time value of the preceding subcomponent t n m 1 or the minimum time value of the frame in which the subcomponent resides t n . The maximum time value of a given subcomponent t n m may alternatively equal the minimum time value for the following subcomponent t n m 1 or the maximum time value of the frame in which the subcomponent resides t n .

When same sized subcomponents are employed frames may be evenly divided. As a result t n m t n m may be equal for each subcomponent of a frame or for all frames such that all subcomponents of a given frame are of the same size. The subcomponent sizes may vary from frame to frame or all subcomponents of all frames may be the same size depending on the sizes of the frames and the numbers of subcomponents within the frames.

In a manner consistent with the subdivision of frames into subcomponents additional multi dimensional arrays of layout parameters can be used to further subdivide subcomponents into smaller components of the same or different sizes ad infinitum. This subdivision may continue until a smallest desirable time component resolution is attained. The time components at each resolution level may have a minimum time value t n m . . . a and a maximum time value t n m . . . a where n 1 to N m 1 to N n . . . and a 1 to N n m . . . .

Such further subdivision of subcomponents into smaller and smaller time components enables systems with finer and finer tuning resolution and thus higher and higher fidelity. This increases modulation timing accuracy and can be useful for other purposes as will be recognized by persons skilled in the art.

As with frames and subcomponents the number and size of these smaller time components can also be tailored to meet specific application requirements. These parameters can also be tailored to remain within system implementation limits to achieve one or more of a variety of system characteristics in areas such as performance i.e. bit rate reliability i.e. bit error rate system simplicity ease of use etc. and or for many other reasons. When different sizes of these smaller time components are employed minimum and maximum time values are specified for each time component a . The minimum time value for a component t n m . . . a may be equal to the maximum time value of the preceding component t n m . . . a 1 or the minimum time value of the next higher level time component in which the time component resides t n m . . . . The maximum time value of a given time component t n m . . . a may alternatively be equal to the minimum time value for the following component t n m . . . a 1 or the maximum time value of the next higher level time component in which the time component resides t n m . . . .

When same sized smaller time components are employed the next higher level components may be evenly divided. Consequently t n m . . . a t n m . . . a may be equal for each time component of a given next higher level component. For all next higher level components all time components of a given next higher level component may be of the same or different size.

Under one arrangement the time component sizes may vary from next higher level component to next higher level component. Alternatively all time components of all higher level components may be of the same size depending on the sizes of the next higher level components and the numbers of time components in the next higher level components.

At the top of a time period of length tis depicted such that the time period is bounded by endpoints of t and t . Beneath this illustration an equivalent time period is shown. As shown the time period is subdivided into four frames by setting the layout parameter Nto a value of four 4 . The size of each frame is established by setting the minimum and maximum time values of each frame t n and t n where n 1 to 4.

An enlargement of the second frame is then shown. The frame is subdivided into twenty subcomponents by setting the layout parameter N 2 to a value of twenty . The size of each subcomponent has been established by setting the minimum and maximum time values of the subcomponents within the second frame t n m and t n m where n 2 and m 1 to 20.

An enlargement of the eighth subcomponent of the second frame is then shown. In this embodiment the subcomponent is subdivided into ten smaller time components by setting the layout parameter N 2 8 to a value of ten 10 . The size of each smaller time component is established by setting the minimum and maximum time values of the smaller components within the eighth subcomponent of the second frame t n m l and t n m l where n 2 m 8 and l 1 to 10.

It is then shown that these smaller time components could be subdivided into x even smaller time components whose size is not shown using another layout parameter e.g. N 2 8 5 x which can be further subdivided ad infinitum. Not shown in the figure are the enlargements of the other frames subcomponents and smaller time components which for this example would also contain twenty subcomponents ten smaller time components and x even smaller time components respectively.

Another approach to defining a time period layout is to specify a layout of discrete time values to which individual code elements can map. As depicted in and a layout parameter Ncan be specified to identify some number of discrete time values within a layout having a value t n where n 1 to N. Discrete time values may be evenly distributed or not as depicted in the two figures. In 37 evenly distributed discrete time values labeled t through t are shown where N 37. In six non evenly distributed discrete time values labeled t through t are shown where N 6.

The discrete value layout approach can be combined with a value range layout approach enabling code element values to specify a component within a value range layout and a discrete value within the component. The use of a combination of these two layout approaches is shown in . In a time value range layout is subdivided into four frames that are subdivided into nine subcomponents containing 27 discrete time values each. The layout is specified by setting N 4 N 1 4 9 and N 1 4 1 9 27.

A code is comprised of code elements whose values map pulses to characteristic values e.g. time positions within the defined layout. The numbering scheme used for a code must be consistent with the numbering scheme used for the defined layout to allow mapping of code element values to layout components or discrete positions within the layout.

Components or discrete values may be numbered beginning with zero one or with any other number. Components produced by subdividing higher level components such as subcomponents or smaller time period components may be numbered per higher level component such that subcomponent numbering begins again with each higher level component or may be numbered in sequence independent of the higher level component in which they reside.

When a value range layout is employed an established offset value can be used to specify the exact position of the pulse within the frame subcomponent or smaller time period component to which a code element value is mapped.

The present invention provides several approaches for using two or more codes to specify time positions of pulses. Combinations of two or more codes can be used for example to address correlation and or spectral properties of different TM UWB applications.

One approach involves a sequential combination of two or more codes. provides two examples of this sequential combination codes approach. In the first example a first code is shown repeating until some event occurs at which time the impulse transmission system employs a second code . The second code is then shown repeating thereafter. It is further shown that the system may transition to additional codes as necessary. In the second example a sequential combination of two or more codes is shown repeating. For example whole sequences of multiple codes each multiple beginning with code repeating and ending with code N repeating are repeated.

The sequential combination codes approach may be used with a single repeating time layout or with two or more different repeating time layouts depending on whether or not the combined codes are of the same size or length. provides two examples of sequential combinations of codes mapping to a repeating layout that complement the two examples provided in .

In the first example sequential combination codes of the same length are mapped to a repeating time layout . In the second example repeating sequential combination codes of the same length are mapped to a repeating layout

The single layout mapping approaches shown in can be used to support multiple channel or multicast communications where a single transmitter emits a pulse train per a sequential combination of codes and where each code represents a separate channel recognizable by a receiver. This application of the single layout sequential combination codes approach is shown in . In the transmitted pulse train from transmitter consists of four codes representing channels to four receivers where the sequential combination codes can be repeated as described with respect to 

In one exemplary embodiment of the invention the sequential combination codes approach can be used to improve signal acquisition and channelization. In a sequential combination of two codes and is shown. The first code having autocorrelation properties that are beneficial during signal acquisition e.g. a Welch Costas code Golumb Costas code or hyperbolic congruential code repeats until the pulse train signal is acquired. After signal acquisition the system switches to a second code that has cross correlation properties that provide for superior channelization e.g. a quadratic congruential code linear congruential code or hyperbolic congruential code. This sequential combination of two codes can be repeated in order to provide receivers a periodic opportunity to acquire or reacquire the signal.

Another approach provided by the present invention can be described as a nested combination of codes. This approach is illustrated in . With this approach a first code having optimal correlation properties is used to specify subcomponents within a value range layout e.g. subcomponents within frames within which pulses are to be placed. A second code having optimal spectral properties is used to specify the exact positions of pulses within the subcomponents specified by the first code .

Specifically in a value range time layout is shown consisting of seven frames that are subdivided into seven subcomponents containing seventeen discreet time values each. The subcomponents within each frame are numbered 0 through 6 and the seventeen discreet values within each subcomponent are numbered 0 through 16.

A first code 0 2 1 4 4 1 2 which is generating using the quadratic congruential code generation technique described below is mapped to subcomponents within each frame . The seven subcomponents to which the elements of the first code are mapped are shown enlarged.

A second code 7 5 14 3 1 10 16 which is generated using a pseudorandom code generation technique described below is mapped to discrete values within the subcomponents specified by the first code .

In the bottom of there is shown the spectrum of a pulse train producing using the same quadratic congruential code combined with a second nested pseudorandom code. The second code is used to specify random pulse positions within the subcomponents specified by the quadratic congruential code. A significant change to the spectrum is shown as the spectral energy has been spread out among the frequencies or smoothed by use of the nested pseudorandom code. The individual randomized structures are labeled .

The sequential combination code approach and the nested combination code approach can also be combined. depicts two examples of using sequential nested combination codes. In the first example a nested code pair repeats until some event occurs. After the event a second repeating nested code pair is employed. The example also shows that additional nested code pairs not labeled can be employed as necessary. In the second example repeating sequential nested combination codes are depicted.

Various numerical code generation methods can be employed to produce codes. Generally each method produces codes that tend to have certain correlation or spectral properties but not both. For example a code can be generated using a quadratic congruential hyperbolic congruential linear congruential Costas array or other such numerical code generation technique designed to generate codes guaranteed to have certain correlation properties. However the mathematicians that developed the code generation techniques were concerned with correlation properties and not spectral properties.

A quadratic congruential code of integer values can be generated using an equation of the general form mod

where p is a prime number. Each quadratic congruential code has p elements and p pdifferent sequences can be generated by changing the value of parameters i and . Quadratic congruential codes have correlation properties that guarantee a maximum of two coincidences when autocorrelated with some time offset and a maximum of four coincidences when cross correlated with another quadratic congruential code.

A hyperbolic congruential code of integer values can be generated using an equation of the general form mod

A linear congruential code of integer values can be generated using an equation of the general form mod

A Costas Array code of integer values can be generated by Welch construction using an equation of the general form mod

A Costas Array code of integer values can also be generated by Golomb construction using an equation of the general form log 1 mod

Each of these alternative code generation schemes has corresponding characteristics to be considered in relation to the application of the pulse transmission system employing the code. For example Costas codes have nearly ideal autocorrelation properties but somewhat less than ideal cross correlation properties while linear congruential codes have nearly ideal cross correlation properties but less than ideal autocorrelation properties. In some cases design tradeoffs require that a compromise between two or more code generation schemes be made such that a code is generated using a combination of two or more methods. An example of such a compromise is an extended quadratic congruential code generation approach that uses two independent operators where the first operator is linear and the second operator is quadratic. Accordingly one two or more code generation schemes or combinations of such schemes can be employed to generate a code without departing from the scope of the invention.

Instead of employing a numerical code generation technique designed to produce codes with guaranteed correlation properties a numerical code generation technique that produces pseudorandom codes can be used. A pseudorandom code can be generated using a computer s random number generator binary shift register s mapped to binary words a chaotic code generation scheme or another well known technique. Such random like codes are attractive for certain applications since they tend to spread spectral energy over multiple frequencies while having good enough correlation properties whereas designed codes may have superior correlation properties but have spectral properties that may not be as suitable for a given application.

Computer random number generator functions commonly employ the linear congruential generation LCG method which generates the n th random number x from the previous random number x using an equation of the general form mod where n identifies a given code in the generated code sequence and the generated sequence is characterized by the multiplier A the additive constant c the modulus m and an initial seed x. These random number generator functions can be referred to as LCG a c m x which determines the sequence generated.

Another method used for computer random number generator functions is the Additive Lagged Fibonacci Generator ALFG method. This approach can be described by an equation of the form mod 2 where n identifies a given code in the generated code sequence and j and k represent offsets to previously generated codes. The period of these generators is 2 1 2and they are referred to as ALFG l k m x which determines the sequence generated.

Binary shift register pseudorandom number generators can be implemented in many different ways. One common approach is the linear feedback shift register illustrated in . illustrates an exemplary LCG shift register including exclusive OR gate and registers . The linear feedback shift register can be described by an equation of the form 

The ALFG method can also be implemented using a shift register and a modulo adder device as shown in which can be described by an equation of the form mod 2 where n identifies a given code in the generated code sequence and j and k represent the shift register bits fed into the modulo adder device.

Many other different but related traditional approaches for generating pseudorandom code sequences can also be employed comprising inversive congruential generators explicit inversive congruential generators multiple recursive generators and combined LCGs. Any of these or other similar traditional methods as known to skilled artisans can be used to generate a pseudorandom code without departing from the scope of the invention.

In addition to the more traditional approaches described for generating pseudorandom codes several other non traditional approaches can be employed including chaotic code generators and Optimal Golomb Ruler OGR code generators. Any of these or other non traditional methods can also be used to generate a pseudorandom code without departing from the scope of the invention.

Different methods of generating pseudorandom codes vary in the degree to which they approach true randomness. Additionally variables such as random number function seed values and initial states of shift registers determine where in the repeating number pattern that a given pseudorandom number or subsequence of numbers is retrieved. Consequently the correlation and uniformity properties of a given generated pseudorandom code sequence can be difficult to predict and guarantee.

After two or more codes have been generated using one or more of the described numerical code generation techniques the codes are used to map pulses to pulse characteristics e.g. positions in time per the defined layout s and the employed code mapping approach. According to the present invention pulse characteristics are specified in accordance with a layout that is subdivided into one or more components. A first code having pre defined properties is mapped to a first component and a second code having pre defined properties is mapped to a second component. For example a code having autocorrelation properties ideal for signal acquisition may be mapped to a first component and a second code having cross correlation properties ideal for channelization may be mapped to a second component. Similarly codes having different spectral properties can be combined as can various combinations of codes with different autocorrelation properties cross correlation properties and spectral properties. For example various algebraic and pseudorandom numerical code generation techniques that are known to have certain correlation or spectral properties can be used with the present invention to generate codes.

Codes can be sequentially combined such that a code repeats until some event occurs at which time another code repeats etc. By using the sequential combination codes approach the present invention supports multi channel communications. Codes can also be nested such that one code specifies components within a value range layout and another code specifies discrete values within the components specified by the first code. In an exemplary embodiment the use of a second nested pseudorandom code may improve spectral properties of algebraic codes. Furthermore the sequential and nested combination code approaches can be combined such that acquisition and channelization are supported and spectral properties are greatly improved. Additionally sequential combination codes nested combination codes and sequential nested combination codes can repeat.

The present invention supports various layout approaches including value range layouts discrete value layouts and combined value range discrete value layouts. If codes of the same size are combined they can be mapped to a repeating layout. If codes having different sizes are combined they can be mapped to layouts having different sizes that correspond to the different code sizes.

As described above individual codes can map to components within a value range layout to values within a value range layout or can map to discrete values within components within a value range layout.

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of an impulse radio transmitter of an impulse radio communication system having one subcarrier channel that advantageously employs the above described invention is shown.

The transmitter comprises a time base that generates a periodic timing signal . The time base typically comprises a voltage controlled oscillator VCO or the like having a high timing accuracy and low jitter on the order of picoseconds ps . The voltage control to adjust the VCO center frequency is set at calibration to the desired center frequency used to define the transmitter s nominal pulse repetition rate. The periodic timing signal is supplied to a precision timing generator .

The precision timing generator supplies synchronizing signals to the code source and utilizes the code source output together with an internally generated subcarrier signal which is optional and an information signal to generate a modulated coded timing signal .

The code source comprises a storage device such as a random access memory RAM read only memory ROM or the like for storing suitable codes and for outputting the codes as a code signal . Alternatively maximum length shift registers or other computational means can be used to generate the codes.

An information source supplies the information signal to the precision timing generator . The information signal can be any type of intelligence including digital bits representing voice data imagery or the like analog signals or complex signals.

A pulse generator uses the modulated coded timing signal as a trigger to generate output pulses. The output pulses are sent to a transmit antenna via a transmission line coupled thereto. The output pulses are converted into propagating electromagnetic pulses by the transmit antenna . In the present embodiment the electromagnetic pulses are called the emitted signal and propagate to an impulse radio receiver such as shown in through a propagation medium such as air in a radio frequency embodiment. In a preferred embodiment the emitted signal is wide band or ultra wide band approaching a monocycle pulse as in .

However the emitted signal can be spectrally modified by filtering of the pulses. This filtering will usually cause each monocycle pulse to have more zero crossings more cycles in the time domain. In this case the impulse radio receiver can use a similar waveform as the template signal in the cross correlator for efficient conversion.

The receiver comprises a receive antenna for receiving a propagated impulse radio signal . A received signal from the receive antenna is coupled to a cross correlator or sampler to produce a baseband output . The cross correlator or sampler includes multiply and integrate functions together with any necessary filters to optimize signal to noise ratio.

The receiver also includes a precision timing generator which receives a periodic timing signal from a receiver time base . This time base is adjustable and controllable in time frequency or phase as required by the lock loop in order to lock on the received signal . The precision timing generator provides synchronizing signals to the code source and receives a code control signal from the code source . The precision timing generator utilizes the periodic timing signal and code control signal to produce a coded timing signal . The template generator is triggered by this coded timing signal and produces a train of template signal pulses ideally having waveforms substantially equivalent to each pulse of the received signal . The code for receiving a given signal is the same code utilized by the originating transmitter to generate the propagated signal . Thus the timing of the template pulse train matches the timing of the received signal pulse train allowing the received signal to be synchronously sampled in the correlator . The correlator ideally comprises a multiplier followed by a short term integrator to sum the multiplier product over the pulse interval.

Further examples and details of correlation and sampling processes can be found in commonly owned U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 641 317 4 743 906 4 813 057 and 4 979 186 which are incorporated herein by reference and U.S. Pat. No. 6 421 389 issued Jul. 16 2002 titled Baseband Signal Converter Device for a Wideband Impulse Radio Receiver which is incorporated herein by reference.

The output of the correlator also called a baseband signal is coupled to a subcarrier demodulator which demodulates the subcarrier information signal from the subcarrier. The purpose of the optional subcarrier process when used is to move the information signal away from DC zero frequency to improve immunity to low frequency noise and offsets. The output of the subcarrier demodulator is then filtered or integrated in a pulse summation stage . The pulse summation stage produces an output representative of the sum of a number of pulse signals comprising a single data bit. The output of the pulse summation stage is then compared with a nominal zero or reference signal output in a detector stage to determine an output signal representing an estimate of the original information signal .

The baseband signal is also input to a lowpass filter also referred to as lock loop filter . A control loop comprising the lowpass filter time base precision timing generator template generator and correlator is used to generate a filtered error signal . The filtered error signal provides adjustments to the adjustable time base to time position the periodic timing signal in relation to the position of the received signal .

In a transceiver embodiment substantial economy can be achieved by sharing part or all of several of the functions of the transmitter and receiver . Some of these include the time base precision timing generator code source antenna and the like.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

