---

title: System and method of restricting access to media content
abstract: A method of restricting access to content delivered via a video distribution network is disclosed and includes receiving a control stream at a service delivery platform. The control stream is related to media content delivered via a video distribution network. The method also includes parsing the control stream and determining, from the parsed control stream, at least one geographical area in which access to programming associated with the video content channel is to be restricted. The method also includes automatically scheduling a conditional access event associated with the media content at least one video head-end of the video distribution network, the at least one video head-end serving the at least one geographical area. In a particular embodiment, the video distribution network can be an Internet Protocol Television (IPTV) network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08924997&OS=08924997&RS=08924997
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property, I, L.P.
number: 08924997
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071101
---
The present disclosure is generally related to provisioning conditional access events related to media content.

Media service providers such as television service providers acquire content from content providers such as television networks and distribute the content to subscribers. Some content is subject to access restrictions such as blackouts and other restrictions which media service providers must implement. Typically conditional access events such as blackouts are scheduled manually after a notification indicating the event is sent from a representative of the content provider to a representative of the service provider. This can make conditional access scheduling labor intensive and prone to error. Hence there is a need for an improved system and method of restricting access to media content.

A system to restrict access to content delivered via a video distribution network is disclosed and includes a service delivery platform having processing logic and memory accessible to the processing logic. The memory includes instructions executable by the processing logic to parse a control stream related to a media content channel and to derive conditional access information from the parsed control stream. The memory also includes instructions executable by the processing logic to determine from the conditional access information a geographic area in which access to media content associated with the media content channel is to be restricted. The memory also includes instructions executable by the processing logic to automatically schedule a conditional access event associated with the media content at a video head end of a video distribution network that serves the geographical area.

In another particular embodiment a method of restricting access to content delivered via a video distribution network is disclosed and includes receiving a control stream at a service delivery platform. The control stream is related to media content delivered via a video distribution network. The method also includes parsing the control stream and determining from the parsed control stream at least one geographical area in which access to programming associated with the video content channel is to be restricted. The method also includes automatically scheduling a conditional access event associated with the media content at least one video head end of the video distribution network the at least one video head end serving the at least one geographical area.

In another particular embodiment a method of restricting access to content delivered via a video distribution network is disclosed and includes sending a media content stream to a super head end associated with the video distribution network. The method also includes sending a control stream to the super head end where the control stream includes control data indicating at least one subscriber group for which access to media content associated with the media content stream is to be restricted. The video distribution network includes a system adapted to automatically schedule based on the control data a conditional access event associated with the media content at least one video head end of the video distribution network. The at least one video head end serves the at least one subscriber group.

In another particular embodiment a computer readable medium is disclosed having processor readable instructions executable by a processor to perform a method. The method includes parsing a control stream related to delivery of media content and deriving conditional access information from the parsed control stream. The method also includes determining from the conditional access information a subscriber group to whom access to media content associated with the control stream is to be restricted and automatically scheduling a conditional access event associated with the programming at least one video head end of a video distribution network the at least one video head end serving media content to the subscriber group.

Referring to a block diagram of a particular embodiment of a system to restrict access to media content is illustrated and designated generally . The system includes a plurality of integrated receiver decoders IRDs that communicate with a proxy server . Each IRD also communicates with an acquisition server A server via an encoder The proxy server communicates with a service delivery platform SDP . Further the SDP communicates with a plurality of video head ends . Each video head end is adapted to distribute media to client devices within a particular geographical area. In one embodiment the proxy server and the SDP are included in a conditional access provisioning system of a video distribution network such as an Internet Protocol Television IPTV network. Alternatively the proxy server can be integrated with the SDP .

In a particular embodiment each IRD serves a plurality of geographic areas via the video head ends . Each IRD receives a media content stream corresponding to a particular television channel such as a video content channel or music content channel. In an illustrative embodiment the media content stream can be a Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG stream that includes video content audio content other media content or a combination thereof. In addition each IRD receives a control stream related to delivery of media content received via the media content stream. Each IRD is adapted to determine whether the control stream includes data indicating that the media content is subject to an access restriction such as a blackout a limitation on access to users associated with a particular subscription level a limitation on access to users who pay for media content corresponding to the media content stream or a combination thereof.

Each IRD is adapted to send its control stream to the SDP via the proxy server when the control stream includes data indicating that the media content is subject to one or more access restrictions. Further each IRD is adapted to send the media content stream to the encoder . The encoder is adapted to encode the content portion for transmission via the video distribution network by the A server that corresponds to the television channel.

The SDP is adapted to parse the control stream into data elements and to derive conditional access information from the parsed data elements. The conditional access information can include a geographical area in which the media content is to be restricted a subscriber group to whom the media content is to be restricted a start time of the restriction an end time of the restriction a type of restriction a channel or virtual channel affected by the restriction or any combination thereof. In an illustrative embodiment a geographical area can be indicated by a geographical region code GRC . The SDP is adapted to automatically schedule a conditional access event at a video head end associated with the geographical area s in which the media content is to be restricted such as the video head end . The SDP can call a scheduling application programming interface API at the video head end and interact with the scheduling API to schedule the conditional access event for main streams sent to client devices secondary streams e.g. picture in picture streams or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the conditional access information can indicate that the media content is to be restricted in multiple geographical areas and the SDP can be adapted to automatically schedule the conditional access event at a plurality of video head ends such as all of the video head ends .

In a particular embodiment the conditional access information can indicate that the media content subject to a restriction is to be replaced with substitute content. The conditional access information can identify the substitute content. The conditional access information can also identify the primary content i.e. the media content subject to the restriction a channel via which the primary content would otherwise be delivered or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the conditional access information can identify the primary content the substitute content or any combination thereof as one or more virtual channels. The SDP is adapted to determine an acquisition point of the substitute content such as a particular acquisition server associated with a virtual channel corresponding to the substitute content.

Additionally the SDP is adapted to automatically schedule the substitution at one or more of the video head ends . In an illustrative embodiment the SDP is adapted to create a substitution table at the video head end s where the substitution table maps the primary content to the substitute content. The substitution table can also indicate the acquisition point of the substitute content such as another acquisition server . For example as shown in a first substitution table for a first channel can indicate that a primary service e.g. ESPN provided by a first acquisition server is to be replaced with a secondary service e.g. ESPN ALT provided by a fifth acquisition server. In another embodiment the substitution table can map a start time end time and channel to the substitute content.

In a particular embodiment the SDP is adapted to receive second control stream data related to television programming or other media content that is subject to the scheduled conditional access event. The SDP parses the second control stream data and derives conditional access update information from the parsed second control stream data. The conditional access update information indicates that a previously scheduled conditional access event is to be deleted or modified. For example the conditional access update information can indicate that a blackout is no longer applicable to a particular television program or that certain users can receive a blacked out program. In another example the update information can indicate that a start time of the blackout an end time of the blackout substitute content to be delivered during the blackout one or more geographical areas to which the blackout applies or any combination thereof have been updated.

The SDP is adapted to identify a previously scheduled conditional access event to which the update information applies. Further the SDP is adapted to automatically modify or delete the scheduled conditional access event at one or more of the video head ends at which the conditional access event was scheduled. In a particular embodiment the SDP logs receipt of the update information. For instance a SDP database can store data indicating that update information has been received a time at which the update information was received at least a portion of the contents of the update information or a combination thereof.

In an illustrative embodiment the SDP can be adapted to determine whether the update information derived from the second control stream data indicates that substitute content associated with the conditional access event is to be modified or deleted i.e. when the conditional access event no longer applies . If the substitute content is to be modified or deleted the SDP can be adapted to automatically call a substitution application programming interface API at one or more of the video head ends to modify or delete a substitution table associated with the conditional access event.

Referring to a block diagram of a second particular embodiment of a system to restrict access to media content is illustrated and designated generally . The system includes a service delivery platform SDP that communicates with a video super head end SHE via a proxy system . Alternatively the proxy system can be integrated with the SDP . The SHE communicates with at least one content provider . Further the SDP communicates with a plurality of VHEs . Each of the VHEs serves media content to client devices of a video distribution system within a particular geographical area.

In one embodiment the content provider sends a media content stream to the SHE . If the content provider determines that the media content is subject to a conditional access restriction the content provider also sends a control stream to the SHE . The control stream includes parsable control data indicating at least one geographical area or other subscriber group for which access to the media content is to be restricted.

In an illustrative embodiment the SHE includes a plurality of integrated receiver decoders IRDs . Each IRD is coupled to one of a plurality of acquisition servers A servers . In a particular embodiment each IRD is adapted to receive a media content stream associated with a different channel or virtual channel from a content provider such as the content provider and to deliver corresponding media content to client devices via the video distribution system. In an illustrative embodiment the media content stream is a Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG stream. Each IRD sends media content associated with a received media content stream to an A server to which it is coupled. Each A server can distribute the media content to one or more of the VHEs for delivery to client devices in one of a plurality of geographical areas served by the VHEs .

Further each IRD is adapted to receive a control stream related to delivery of media content received via its media content stream. Each IRD is adapted to determine whether the control stream includes data indicating that the media content associated with the media content stream is subject to one or more access restrictions such as a blackout a limitation on access to users associated with a particular subscription level a limitation on access to users who pay for media content corresponding to the media content stream or a combination thereof. The IRD is adapted to send the control stream to the SDP via the proxy system when the control stream includes data indicating that the media content is subject to one or more access restrictions.

The SDP includes processing logic and memory accessible to the processing logic. The memory includes a plurality of modules that are adapted to provide various functions of the SDP with respect to automatically provisioning conditional access with respect to media content. The modules can include data stores hardware logic instructions executable by the processing logic such as instructions included in one or more computer programs or operating systems or any combination thereof.

For example the memory includes a control module that is executable by the processing logic to receive control streams from the IRDs via the proxy system . Further the control module is executable by the processing logic to parse each control stream and to derive conditional access information from the parsed control stream. The conditional access information includes a geographical area in which the media content is to be restricted a subscriber group to which the media content is to be restricted a start time of the restriction an end time of the restriction a type of restriction a channel affected by the restriction substitute content to replace the restricted media content or any combination thereof. In an illustrative embodiment the geographical area can be indicated by a geographical region code GRC .

The memory includes a SDP database to log receipt of control stream data indicating a conditional access event. For instance the SDP database can store data indicating that the control stream data was received a time at which the control stream data was received at least a portion of the conditional access information or any combination thereof.

The memory includes an event schedule module that is executable by the processing logic to automatically schedule a conditional access event at each video head end associated with a geographical area in which the media content is to be restricted. In one embodiment the conditional access information can indicate that the media content is to be restricted in multiple geographical areas and the event schedule module that is executable by the processing logic to automatically schedule the conditional access event at a plurality of video head ends . For example the media content can be subject to a blackout in multiple geographical areas. In another embodiment the event schedule module can be executable by the processing logic to schedule a first type of conditional access event at a first VHE and a second type of conditional access event at a second VHE. For instance the media content can be subject to a blackout in a first geographical area and restricted to paying users or users associated with a certain subscription level in another geographical area. In a particular embodiment the memory can include a VHE reference module to store data indicating which of the VHEs is associated with a particular geographical area.

In a particular embodiment the conditional access information can indicate that the media content subject to a restriction is to be replaced with substitute content. The conditional access information can identify the substitute content. The conditional access information can also identify the primary content i.e. the media content subject to the restriction a channel via which the primary content would otherwise be delivered or a combination thereof. The memory includes a substitute module that is executable by the processing logic to determine an acquisition point of the substitute content such as a particular acquisition server and to schedule the substitution at one or more of the video head ends .

In an illustrative embodiment the substitute module is executable by the processing logic to create a substitution table at the video head end s where the substitution table maps the primary content to the substitute content. The substitution table can also indicate the acquisition point of the substitute content such as a particular acquisition server. In another embodiment the substitution table can map a start time end time and channel to the substitute content.

In a particular embodiment the control module is executable by the processing logic to receive second control stream data related to television programming or other media content that is subject to the scheduled conditional access event. The control module is executable by the processing logic to parse the second control stream data and derive conditional access update information from the parsed second control stream data. The conditional access update information includes data indicating that a previously scheduled conditional access event is to be deleted or modified. For example the conditional access update information can indicate that a blackout is no longer applicable to a particular television program or that certain users can receive a blacked out program. In another example the update information can indicate that a start time of the blackout an end time of the blackout substitute content to be delivered during the blackout one or more geographical areas to which the blackout applies or any combination thereof have been updated.

The memory includes an update module that is executable by the processing logic to identify a previously scheduled conditional access event to which the update information applies. For instance the previously scheduled conditional access event can be retrieved from the SDP database or the conditional access update information can indicate the previously scheduled conditional access event. The update module is executable by the processing logic to automatically modify or delete the scheduled conditional access event at one or more of the video head ends at which the conditional access event was scheduled. In a particular embodiment the SDP database logs receipt of the update information. For instance the SDP database can store data indicating that update information has been received when the update information was received at least a portion of the contents of the update information or any combination thereof.

In an illustrative embodiment the control module is executable by the processing logic to determine whether the update information derived from the second control stream data indicates that substitute content associated with the conditional access event is to be modified or deleted i.e. when the conditional access event no longer applies . If the substitute content is to be modified or deleted the update module is executable by the processing logic to automatically call a substitution application programming interface API at one or more of the VHEs to modify or delete a substitution table associated with the conditional access event.

Referring to a flow diagram of a particular embodiment of a method of restricting access to media content is illustrated. At block a conditional access provisioning system receives a control stream related to the delivery of television programming or other media content. In an illustrative example the control stream can be received from a super head end of an Internet Protocol Television network at a service delivery platform SDP or other device of the conditional access provisioning system. Moving to block the conditional access provisioning system parses the control stream.

Proceeding to block the conditional access provisioning system derives conditional access information from the parsed control stream. The conditional access information includes data indicating that television programming or other media content associated with the media content stream is subject to a conditional access restriction such as a blackout a limitation on access to certain users or a combination thereof within at least one geographical area. In one embodiment the media content can be subject to a plurality of conditional access restrictions within a plurality of geographical areas. For example the media content can be subject to a blackout in multiple geographical areas. In another example the media content can be subject to a blackout in a first geographical area and restricted to paying users or users associated with a certain subscription level in another geographical area. The control stream can also indicate a start time of the conditional access restriction an end time of the conditional access restriction a channel affected by the conditional access restriction substitute content to be delivered via the affected channel between the start time and end time of the conditional access restriction or any combination thereof.

Continuing to block the conditional access provisioning system logs receipt of the conditional access information. For instance a SDP database can store data indicating that the control stream data was received a time at which the control stream data was received at least a portion of the conditional access information or any combination thereof.

Advancing to block the conditional access provisioning system determines the geographical area s in which the media content associated with the media content stream is subject to the conditional access restriction s . For example the conditional access provisioning system can determine the geographical area s based on one or more geographical region codes GRCs included with the conditional access information. At block the conditional access provisioning system automatically schedules a conditional access event at each video head end that serves a geographical area in which the media content is subject to a conditional access restriction. For example the conditional access provisioning system can automatically call and interact with a scheduling application programming interface API to schedule the conditional access event. In one embodiment the conditional access provisioning system schedules a same type of conditional access event at each video head end. In another embodiment the conditional access provisioning system schedules one type of conditional access event at one or more first video head ends and schedules a second type of conditional access event at one or more second video head ends.

Moving to decision node the conditional access provisioning system determines whether the conditional access information derived from the control stream indicates that substitute content is to be delivered in replace of the media content associated with the conditional access event. If substitute content is to be delivered the method proceeds to block and the conditional access provisioning system determines a source of the substitute content. The source can be determined from the conditional access information included with the control stream or from data stored at the conditional access provisioning system. The method continues to block and the conditional access provisioning system creates a substitution table at each video head end where a conditional access event has been scheduled for the media content. In one example the conditional access provisioning system automatically calls and interacts with a substitution API to create the substitution table. The method terminates at .

Referring to a flow diagram of a second particular embodiment of a method of restricting access to media content is illustrated. At block a conditional access provisioning system receives second control stream data related to television programming or other media content that is subject to conditional access. In an illustrative example the second control stream data can be received from a super head end of an Internet Protocol Television IPTV network at a service delivery platform SDP or other device of the conditional access provisioning system. Moving to block the conditional access provisioning system parses the second control stream data.

Proceeding to block the conditional access provisioning system derives conditional access update information from the parsed control stream. The conditional access update information includes data indicating that a previously scheduled conditional access event is to be deleted or modified. For example the conditional access update information can indicate that a blackout is no longer applicable to a particular television program or that certain users can receive a blacked out program. In another example the update information can indicate that a start time of the blackout an end time of the blackout substitute content to be delivered during the blackout one or more geographical areas to which the blackout applies or any combination thereof have been updated.

Continuing to block the conditional access provisioning system logs receipt of the update information. For instance a SDP database can store data indicating that update information has been received a time at which the update information was received at least a portion of the contents of the update information or a combination thereof. Advancing to block the conditional access provisioning system identifies a previously scheduled conditional access event to which the update information applies.

At block the conditional access provisioning system automatically modifies or deletes the scheduled conditional access event at one or more video head ends where the conditional access event was previously scheduled. Moving to decision node the conditional access provisioning system determines whether the update information derived from the control stream indicates that substitute content associated with the conditional access event is to be modified or deleted i.e. when the conditional access event no longer applies . If the substitute content is to be modified or deleted the method proceeds to block and the conditional access provisioning system automatically calls and interacts with a substitution application programming interface API at each video head end where the conditional access event was scheduled to modify or delete a substitution table associated with the conditional access event. The method terminates at .

Referring to a third particular embodiment of a method of restricting access to content is illustrated. At block a content provider sends a media content stream to a super head end system of a media content service provider such as an Internet Protocol Television IPTV service provider. The super head end of the media content service provider communicates with a system associated with the video distribution network such as a service delivery platform which is adapted to automatically schedule conditional access events based on control data. Moving to decision node the content provider determines whether the media content associated with the media content stream is subject to conditional access. For instance the content provider can determine that at least one geographical area or other subscriber group is prohibited from viewing the media content such as a sports game due to a blackout restriction. If the content provider determines that the media content is subject to a conditional access restriction the method proceeds to block and the content provider sends a control stream to the super head end. The control stream includes parsable control data indicating at least one subscriber group for which access to the media content is to be restricted. The method terminates at . In a particular embodiment the system communicating with the super head end can parse the control stream and automatically schedule a conditional access event at one or more video head ends serving the subscriber group s for which the media content is subject to conditional access.

In some embodiments the methods disclosed herein can be performed as described. In alternative embodiments aspects of the methods can be performed in alternative sequences or simultaneously. For example a media content provider can determine whether media content is subject to conditional access before sending the media content stream. In another example the media content provider can send the media content stream and the control stream simultaneously.

Referring to a general diagram of an illustrative embodiment of a control stream is illustrated and designated generally . The control stream includes a plurality of retune messages sent for example at ten second intervals. For example the control stream includes one or more first retune messages indicating that primary media content such as media content associated with a virtual channel is to be delivered to a geographic area corresponding to multicast address . In one embodiment one or more particular integrated receiver decoders IRDs at a video super head end can be associated with multicast address where the IRD s are allocated to the geographic area.

In addition the control stream includes a plurality of second retune messages indicating that the geographic area corresponding to multicast address is to receive substitute content associated with a second virtual channel beginning at a blackout start time and ending at a blackout end time . In one embodiment the second retune messages can occur within the control stream at ten second intervals beginning one minute prior to the blackout start time .

During a period between the blackout start time and the blackout end time a plurality of third retune messages indicate that the geographic area corresponding to multicast address is to receive media content associated with the virtual channel . In addition fourth retune messages indicate that the geographic area corresponding to multicast address is to begin receiving media content associated with virtual channel at the blackout end time . The fourth retune messages can occur within the control stream for example at ten second intervals beginning one minute before the blackout end time .

In conjunction with the configuration of structure provided herein a system and method of restricting access to media content are provided in which automated software based scheduling and execution of blackouts and other conditional access events occur based on a control stream that is received and parsed at a service delivery platform or other conditional access provisioning system of a video distribution network such as an Internet Protocol Television IPTV network. In other embodiments the system and method can be applied to a cable network a satellite dish network or other video distribution network adapted to deliver video traffic via similar architectures.

Referring to an illustrative embodiment of a general computer system is shown and is designated . The computer system can include a set of instructions that can be executed to cause the computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or computer based functions disclosed herein. The computer system may operate as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. using a network to other computer systems or peripheral devices.

In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server client user network environment or as a peer computer system in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The computer system can also be implemented as or incorporated into various devices such as a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile device a palmtop computer a laptop computer a desktop computer a communications device a wireless telephone a land line telephone a control system a camera a scanner a facsimile machine a printer a pager a personal trusted device a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any other machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. In a particular embodiment the computer system can be implemented using electronic devices that provide voice video or data communication Further while a single computer system is illustrated the term system shall also be taken to include any collection of systems or sub systems that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.

As illustrated in the computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both. Moreover the computer system can include a main memory and a static memory which can communicate with each other via a bus . As shown the computer system may further include a video display unit such as a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED a flat panel display a solid state display or a cathode ray tube CRT . Additionally the computer system may include an input device such as a keyboard and a cursor control device such as a mouse. The computer system can also include a disk drive unit a signal generation device such as a speaker or remote control and a network interface device .

In a particular embodiment as depicted in the disk drive unit may include a computer readable medium in which one or more sets of instructions e.g. software can be embedded. Further the instructions may embody one or more of the methods or logic as described herein. In a particular embodiment the instructions may reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may include computer readable media.

In an alternative embodiment dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system encompasses software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Further in an exemplary non limited embodiment implementations can include distributed processing component object distributed processing and parallel processing. Alternatively virtual computer system processing can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods or functionality as described herein.

The present disclosure contemplates a computer readable medium that includes instructions or receives and executes instructions responsive to a propagated signal so that a device connected to a network can communicate voice video or data over the network . Further the instructions may be transmitted or received over the network via the network interface device .

While the computer readable medium is shown to be a single medium the term computer readable medium includes a single medium or multiple media such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein.

In a particular non limiting exemplary embodiment the computer readable medium can include a solid state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non volatile read only memories. Further the computer readable medium can be a random access memory or other volatile re writable memory. Additionally the computer readable medium can include a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tapes or other storage device to capture carrier wave signals such as a signal communicated over a transmission medium. A digital file attachment to an e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives may be considered a distribution medium that is equivalent to a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a computer readable medium or a distribution medium and other equivalents and successor media in which data or instructions may be stored.

Although the present specification describes components and functions that may be implemented in particular embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the disclosed embodiments are not limited to such standards and protocols. For example standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions as those disclosed herein are considered equivalents thereof.

The illustrations of the embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of the various embodiments. The illustrations are not intended to serve as a complete description of all of the elements and features of apparatus and systems that utilize the structures or methods described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the disclosure. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived from the disclosure such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Additionally the illustrations are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions within the illustrations may be exaggerated while other proportions may be reduced. Accordingly the disclosure and the figures are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

One or more embodiments of the disclosure may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any particular invention or inventive concept. Moreover although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any subsequent arrangement designed to achieve the same or similar purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all subsequent adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the description.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b and is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description various features may be grouped together or described in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter may be directed to less than all of the features of any of the disclosed embodiments. Thus the following claims are incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as defining separately claimed subject matter.

The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications enhancements and other embodiments which fall within the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus to the maximum extent allowed by law the scope of the present invention is to be determined by the broadest permissible interpretation of the following claims and their equivalents and shall not be restricted or limited by the foregoing detailed description.

