---

title: Targeted obstrufication of an image
abstract: Embodiments include a system, a device, an apparatus, a method, and a computer program product. An embodiment provides a device that includes an anonymization module operable to produce in response to an anonymization policy an anonymized image by causing a reduction in fidelity of a feature of a subject depicted in a received image. The device also includes a communications module operable to send a signal indicative of the anonymization policy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08126190&OS=08126190&RS=08126190
owner: The Invention Science Fund I, LLC
number: 08126190
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070131
---
The present application is related to and claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Related Applications e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 USC 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Application s .

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 701 527 entitled IMAGE ANONYMIZATION naming EDWARD K. Y. JUNG ROYCE A. LEVIEN ROBERT W. LORD MARK A. MALAMUD WILLIAM HENRY MANGIONE SMITH JOHN D. RINALDO JR. as inventors filed Jan. 31 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 701 524 entitled ANONYMIZATION PURSUANT TO A BROADCASTED POLICY naming EDWARD K. Y. JUNG ROYCE A. LEVIEN ROBERT W. LORD MARK A. MALAMUD WILLIAM HENRY MANGIONE SMITH JOHN D. RINALDO JR. as inventors filed Jan. 31 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

The United States Patent Office USPTO has published a notice to the effect that the USPTO s computer programs require that patent applicants reference both a serial number and indicate whether an application is a continuation or continuation in part. Stephen G. Kunin Benefit of Prior Filed Application USPTO Official Gazette Mar. 18 2003 available at http www.uspto.gov web offices com sol og 2003 week11 patbene.htm. The present Applicant Entity hereinafter Applicant has provided above a specific reference to the application s from which priority is being claimed as recited by statute. Applicant understands that the statute is unambiguous in its specific reference language and does not require either a serial number or any characterization such as continuation or continuation in part for claiming priority to U.S. patent applications. Notwithstanding the foregoing Applicant understands that the USPTO s computer programs have certain data entry requirements and hence Applicant is designating the present application as a continuation in part of its parent applications as set forth above but expressly points out that such designations are not to be construed in any way as any type of commentary and or admission as to whether or not the present application contains any new matter in addition to the matter of its parent application s .

All subject matter of the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Applications is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

An embodiment provides a system. The system includes an imaging device operable to acquire an image of a subject. The system also includes an anonymizer circuit operable to generate an anonymized image that includes a decreased fidelity of a property of a subject of the acquired image in response to an anonymization policy. The system further includes a display operable to provide a human perceivable indication of the anonymization policy. In an embodiment the system further includes a storage media configurable by data corresponding to the anonymized image. In addition to the foregoing other system embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a method. The method includes capturing an image of a subject. The method also includes producing an obscured digital image of the subject by reducing a fidelity of a property of the subject in the captured image in response to an ambiguity policy. The method further includes broadcasting an indication of the ambiguity policy. The method may include saving the obscured image. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides a device. The device includes means for capturing a digital image of a subject. The device also includes means for producing an obscured digital image of the subject by reducing a fidelity of a property of the subject in the captured image in response to an ambiguity policy. The device further includes means for broadcasting an indication of the ambiguity policy. The device may include means for saving the obscured digital image in a digital storage medium. In addition to the foregoing other device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a computer program product. The computer program product includes program instructions operable to perform a process in a computing device. The process includes receiving an image of a subject and reducing a fidelity of a property of the subject in the captured image in response to an ambiguity policy. The process also includes broadcasting an indication of the ambiguity policy. The process may further include saving data representative of the received image of a subject having the reduced fidelity of the property. The computer program product further includes a computer readable signal bearing medium bearing the program instructions. In addition to the foregoing other computer program product embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a system. The system includes an imaging device operable to capture an image of a subject. The system also includes an alteration circuit operable to generate an anonymized image by obscuring a property of the captured image of a subject in response to a privacy policy. The system further includes a computer readable storage media configurable by the anonymized image and a display operable to provide a human perceivable indication of the privacy policy. In addition to the foregoing other system embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides a system. The system includes a sensor device operable to capture from a subject information corresponding to the subject. The system also includes an anonymizer circuit operable to generate an anonymized image that includes a decreased fidelity of a property of a subject of the captured information in response to an anonymization policy. The anonymizer circuit is also operable to inform a display device of the anonymization policy. The system further includes the display device operable to broadcast an indication of the anonymization policy perceivable by a human at least nearby the subject. The system may further include a non volatile computer storage media configurable by data corresponding to the anonymized image. In addition to the foregoing other system embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a method. The method includes capturing information corresponding to a subject from the subject. The method also includes generating an anonymized image that includes a decreased fidelity of a property of a subject of the captured information in response to an anonymization policy. The method further includes broadcasting an indication of the anonymization policy perceivable by the subject. The method may further include informing a display device of the anonymization policy. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a device. The device includes means for capturing information corresponding to a subject from the subject. The device also includes means for generating an anonymized image that includes a decreased fidelity of a property of a subject of the captured information in response to an anonymization policy. The device further includes means for broadcasting an indication of the anonymization policy perceivable by a person proximate to the subject. The device may include means for informing a display device of the anonymization policy. In addition to the foregoing other device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides a device. The device includes an anonymization module operable to produce in response to an anonymization policy an anonymized image by causing a reduction in fidelity of a feature of a subject depicted in a received image. The device further includes a communications module operable to send a signal indicative of the anonymization policy. The device may include a selector module operable to designate the anonymization policy. The device may include a selector module operable to choose the anonymization policy from at least two anonymization policies. The device may include a digital storage media configurable by the anonymized image. The device may include a computing device. The computing device may include the anonymization module. In addition to the foregoing other device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a method. The method includes obscuring a property of a subject depicted in a received image in response to a privacy policy. The method also includes sending a signal indicative of the privacy policy. The method may include displaying an indication of the privacy policy perceivable by a human proximate to the subject and near in time to a capture of the received image. The method may include displaying an indication of the privacy policy perceivable by a human proximate to the subject and prior to a capture of the received image. The method may include receiving the image depicting the subject. The method may include saving digital data representative of the subject depicted in the received image with the property obscured in response to the privacy policy. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a device. The device includes means for obscuring in response to a privacy policy a property of a subject depicted in a received image. The device also includes means for sending a signal indicative of the privacy policy receivable by a human perceivable display. The device may include means for displaying an indication of the privacy policy perceivable by a human proximate to the subject and near in time to a capture of the received image. The device may include means for displaying an indication of the privacy policy perceivable by a human proximate to the subject and prior to a capture of the received image. The device may include means for saving digital data representative of the subject depicted in the received image with the property obscured in response to the privacy policy. In addition to the foregoing other device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides a computer program product. The computer program product includes program instructions operable to perform a process in a computing device and a computer readable signal bearing medium bearing the program instructions. The process includes sending a signal indicative of a privacy policy and obscuring a property of a subject depicted in a received image in response to the privacy policy. The process may further include displaying an indication of the privacy policy perceivable by a human proximate to the subject and near in time to a capture of the received image. The process may further include receiving the image depicting the subject. The process may further include data representative of the subject depicted in the received image with the property obscured in response to the privacy policy. In addition to the foregoing other computer program product embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a system. The system includes an imaging device operable to capture an image depicting a member of a class of subjects that may have a temporal presence in an area. The system also includes an anonymization device having a selector circuit operable to select an anonymization policy the anonymization policy includes obscuring a property of the class of subjects depicted in the captured image. The system further includes a broadcast device operable to display a human perceivable indication of the selected anonymization policy to at least a portion of the area. The system also includes an anonymization circuit operable to generate an anonymized image by applying the selected anonymization policy to an image captured by the imaging device and depicting a member of the class of subjects. The system may include a persistent storage media configurable by a digital file representative of the anonymized image. In addition to the foregoing other system embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a method. The method includes receiving an anonymization policy in an image capture device operable to capture an image of a class of subjects having a temporal presence in an area. The anonymization policy includes obscuring a property of a class of subjects depicted in an image. The method also includes broadcasting a human perceivable indication of the anonymization policy to at least a portion of the area. The method further includes generating an obscured image of a member of the class of subjects by applying the selected anonymization policy to an image captured by the image capture device and depicting the member of the class of subjects. The method may include selecting the anonymization policy. The method may include configuring a persistent computer readable storage media with data representative of the obscured image. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides a system. The system includes means for wirelessly receiving an anonymization policy in an image capture device operable to capture an image of a class of subjects having a temporal presence in an area. The anonymization policy including obscuring a property of a class of subjects depicted in an image. The system also includes means for broadcasting a human perceivable indication of the anonymization policy to at least a portion of the area. The system further includes means for generating an obscured image of a member of the class of subjects by applying the selected anonymization policy to an image captured by the image capture device and depicting the member of the class of subjects. The system may include means for selecting the anonymization policy from at least two anonymization policies. The system may include means for configuring a persistent computer readable storage media with a file representative of the obscured image. In addition to the foregoing other system embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a method. The method includes receiving a signal corresponding to an anonymization policy. The anonymization policy includes obscuring a property of a class of subjects depicted in an image. The method also includes broadcasting a human perceivable indication of the anonymization policy to at least a portion of an area. The method further includes capturing an image depicting a member of the class of subjects having a presence in an area. The method also includes generating an obscured image of the member of the class of subjects by applying the anonymization policy to the captured image depicting the member of the class of subjects.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrated embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a number of switches and buttons illustrated as hardware buttons connected to the system via a suitable interface . Input devices may further include a touch sensitive display screen with suitable input detection circuitry . The output circuitry of the touch sensitive display is connected to the system bus via a video driver . Other input devices may include a microphone connected through a suitable audio interface and a physical hardware keyboard not shown . In addition to the display the computing device may include other peripheral output devices such as at least one speaker .

Other external input or output devices such as a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like may be connected to the processing unit through a USB port and USB port interface to the system bus . Alternatively the other external input and output devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or other port. The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting to a flash card memory not shown through an appropriate connection port not shown . The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting with a network through a network port and network interface and through wireless port and corresponding wireless interface may be provided to facilitate communication with other peripheral devices including other computers printers and so on not shown . It will be appreciated that the various components and connections shown are exemplary and other components and means of establishing communications links may be used.

The computing device may be primarily designed to include a user interface. The user interface may include a character a key based and or another user data input via the touch sensitive display . The user interface may include using a stylus not shown . Moreover the user interface is not limited to an actual touch sensitive panel arranged for directly receiving input but may alternatively or in addition respond to another input device such as the microphone . For example spoken words may be received at the microphone and recognized. Alternatively the computing device may be designed to include a user interface having a physical keyboard not shown .

The device functional elements are typically application specific and related to a function of the electronic device and is coupled with the system bus through an interface not shown . The functional elements may typically perform a single well defined task with little or no user configuration or setup such as a refrigerator keeping food cold a cell phone connecting with an appropriate tower and transceiving voice or data information and a camera capturing and saving an image.

The computing system environment typically includes a variety of computer readable media products. Computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not of limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media and communications media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . In a further embodiment a computer storage media may include a group of computer storage media devices. In another embodiment an information store may include a computer storage media. In another embodiment an information store may include a quantum memory a photonic quantum memory and or atomic quantum memory. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Communications media may typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media include wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF optical and infrared media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A RAM may include at least one of a DRAM an EDO DRAM a SDRAM a RDRAM a VRAM and or a DDR DRAM. A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Often the operating system offers services to applications programs by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown . Because the operating system incorporates these services developers of applications programs need not redevelop code to use the services. Examples of APIs provided by operating systems such as Microsoft s WINDOWS are well known in the art.

The computing device may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media products. By way of example only illustrates a non removable non volatile memory interface hard disk interface that reads from and writes for example to non removable non volatile magnetic media. also illustrates a removable non volatile memory interface that for example is coupled to a magnetic disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk and or is coupled to an optical disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM. Other removable nonremovable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes memory cards flash memory cards DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as the interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from the operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a microphone keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish and scanner. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system environment may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks such as a personal area network PAN not shown . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computing system environment is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing device typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or via another appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on computer storage medium . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

In the description that follows certain embodiments may be described with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations that are performed by one or more computing devices such as the computing device of . As such it will be understood that such acts and operations which are at times referred to as being computer executed include the manipulation by the processing unit of the computer of electrical signals representing data in a structured form. This manipulation transforms the data or maintains them at locations in the memory system of the computer which reconfigures or otherwise alters the operation of the computer in a manner well understood by those skilled in the art. The data structures in which data is maintained are physical locations of the memory that have particular properties defined by the format of the data. However while an embodiment is being described in the foregoing context it is not meant to be limiting as those of skill in the art will appreciate that the acts and operations described hereinafter may also be implemented in hardware.

Embodiments may be implemented with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing devices and computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and configurations that may be suitable for use with an embodiment include but are not limited to personal computers handheld or laptop devices personal digital assistants multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network minicomputers server computers game server computers web server computers mainframe computers and distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices.

Embodiments may be described in a general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An embodiment may also be practiced in a distributed computing environment where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

In an embodiment the imaging device operable to acquire an image of a subject further includes a digital imaging device operable to acquire an image of a subject of the potential image subject s . In another embodiment the imaging device operable to acquire an image of a subject further includes a digital camera operable to acquire an image of a subject. For example the digital camera may include a lens an imaging element an analog to digital converter and or a processor . In a further embodiment the imaging device operable to acquire an image of a subject further includes an imaging device operable to capture an image of a subject of the potential image subject s .

In an embodiment the imaging device operable to acquire an image of a subject further includes an imaging device operable to receive an image of a subject of the of the potential image subject s . In another embodiment the imaging device operable to acquire an image of a subject further includes an imaging device operable to acquire at least one of a digital and or an analog image of a subject. In a further embodiment the imaging device operable to acquire an image of a subject further includes an imaging device operable to acquire a digital image of a subject the digital image including a representation of a dimensional image as a finite set of digital values called picture elements or pixels. In an embodiment the imaging device operable to acquire an image of a subject further includes an imaging device operable to acquire at least one of a still and or a streaming image of a subject. In a further embodiment the imaging device operable to acquire an image of a subject further includes an imaging device operable to acquire an image of at least one of a person a patron a shopper a spectator a car a truck a ship and or an aircraft. In another embodiment the imaging device operable to acquire an image of a subject further includes an imaging device operable to capture an image of a subject and to create a digital signal representative of the acquired image.

In an embodiment the anonymizer circuit operable to generate an anonymized image that includes a decreased fidelity of a property of the subject of the acquired image in response to an anonymization policy further includes an anonymizer circuit operable to generate an anonymized image that includes a decreased fidelity of a property of the subject of the acquired image in response to an anonymization policy and restrict a dissemination of the acquired image. For example a restriction of a dissemination of the acquired image may include blocking a dissemination of the image where the image does not include the decreased fidelity of a property of a subject of the acquired image in response to an anonymization policy. By way of further example a restriction of a dissemination of the acquired image may include requiring a special permission before a dissemination of the image where the image does not include the decreased fidelity of a property of a subject of the acquired image in response to an anonymization policy. In another embodiment the anonymizer circuit operable to generate an anonymized image that includes a decreased fidelity of a property of the subject of the acquired image in response to an anonymization policy further includes an anonymizer circuit operable to generate an anonymized digital image that includes a decreased fidelity of a property of the subject of the acquired image in response to an anonymization policy. In a further embodiment the anonymizer circuit operable to generate an anonymized image that includes a decreased fidelity of a property of the subject of the acquired image in response to an anonymization policy further includes an anonymizer circuit operable to generate an anonymized image that includes a decreased at least one of accuracy in describing or reporting facts or details and or faithfulness in a depiction of a property of the subject of the acquired image in response to an anonymization policy.

In an embodiment the anonymizer circuit operable to generate an anonymized image that includes a decreased fidelity of a property of the subject of the acquired image in response to an anonymization policy further includes an anonymizer circuit operable to generate an anonymized image that includes at least one of a decreased resolution of a property an obscuring of a property a blackout of a property and or a removal of a property of the subject of the acquired image in response to an anonymization policy. In a further embodiment the anonymizer circuit further includes an anonymizer circuit operable to generate an anonymized image that includes a decreased fidelity of an aspect a property and or an attribute of the subject of the acquired image in response to an anonymization policy. In another embodiment the anonymizer circuit further includes an anonymizer circuit operable to generate an anonymized image that includes a decreased fidelity of at least one of a face a license plate a label and or a recognizable property associated with the subject of the acquired image in response to an anonymization policy.

In an embodiment the anonymizer circuit operable to generate an anonymized image that includes a decreased fidelity of a property of the subject of the acquired image in response to an anonymization policy further includes an anonymizer circuit operable to generate an anonymized image that includes a decreased fidelity of a property of the subject of the acquired image in response to an anonymization policy. The anonymization policy being selected from among at least two anonymization policies. In another embodiment the anonymizer circuit further includes an anonymizer circuit operable to generate an anonymized image that includes a decreased fidelity of a property of the subject of the acquired image in response to an anonymization policy. The anonymization policy being selected in response to at least one of a received human initiated input in response to a signal received from a remote device and or a selection algorithm. In a further embodiment the anonymizer circuit further includes an anonymizer circuit operable to generate an anonymized image that includes a decreased fidelity of a property of the subject of the acquired image in response to an anonymization policy the anonymization policy persisting for a predetermined time.

In an embodiment the anonymizer circuit operable to generate an anonymized image that includes a decreased fidelity of a property of the subject of the acquired image in response to an anonymization policy further includes an anonymizer circuit operable to generate an anonymized image that includes a decreased fidelity of a property of the subject of the acquired image in response to an anonymization policy. The decreased fidelity including a non storage a temporary storage and or other rule and or behavior that results in the property not being savable and or transmittable. For example the anonymization policy may block transmittal of recognizable face portions of an image to a remote location and or to an image storage device. In another embodiment the anonymizer circuit further includes an anonymizer circuit operable to generate an anonymized image that includes a decreased fidelity of a property of the subject of the acquired image in response to an anonymization policy. The anonymization policy including a set of rules or behaviors that characterize the way properties are handled that results in a reduction of fidelity.

In an embodiment the display operable to provide a human perceivable indication of the anonymization policy further includes a display operable to provide a human perceivable visual indication of the anonymization policy. In another embodiment the display further includes a display operable to provide a human perceivable indication of the anonymization policy at least close in time to the acquisition of the image. In a further embodiment the display further includes a display operable to provide a color based visual indication of the anonymization policy. In another embodiment the display further includes a display operable to provide a human perceivable audio indication of the anonymization policy.

In an embodiment the system further includes a storage media configurable by data corresponding to the anonymized image. In another embodiment the storage media configurable by data corresponding to the anonymized image further includes at least one of a quantum an atomic a magnetic and or an optical storage media configurable by digital data corresponding to the anonymized image.

In another embodiment instead of decreasing a fidelity of a property of a subject by obscuring or blacking out the property a fidelity of a property may decreased by extracting information corresponding to the property from a raw image acquired by the imaging device of and then saving only the image post information extraction.

In an alternative embodiment the process of the program instruction further includes saving data representative of the received image of a subject having the reduced fidelity of the property. In a further embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium further includes a computer storage medium . In another embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium further includes a communications medium .

The system also includes an anonymizer circuit operable to generate an anonymized image that includes a decreased fidelity of a property of the subject of the captured information in response to an anonymization policy. The anonymized image may include a visual image of the subject a graphical image of the subject and or an image of the subject embodied in data. In an embodiment the anonymization policy may be a single policy implementable by the anonymization circuit. In another embodiment the anonymization policy may include an anonymization policy selected from at least two anonymization policies. The selection may be in response to a human input and or a machine input. The anonymizer circuit is also operable to inform a display device of the anonymization policy. The system further includes the display device operable to broadcast an indication of the anonymization policy perceivable by a human at least nearby the subject. The indication may be broadcast before during and or after the capture of information corresponding to a subject.

In an embodiment the sensor device operable to capture from a subject information corresponding to the subject further includes a sensor device operable to capture at least one of optical acoustical x ray radiation chemical and or ultrasound information corresponding to a subject from the subject. In another embodiment the sensor device further includes a sensor device operable to capture information corresponding to at least one of a human subject and or object subject. In a further embodiment the sensor device further includes a sensor device operable to capture information corresponding to a subject from a signal emitted by and or reflected from the subject. In another embodiment the sensor device further includes a sensor device operable to capture information corresponding to a subject from at least one of a light an electromagnetic and or an acoustical spectrum signal.

In an embodiment the system further includes a non volatile computer storage media configurable by data corresponding to the anonymized image.

In an embodiment the communication operation broadcasting an indication of the anonymization policy perceivable by the subject further includes broadcasting an indication of the anonymization policy perceivable by a person proximate to the subject . In another embodiment the operational flow further includes a transmission operation informing a display device of the anonymization policy.

In an embodiment the anonymization module further includes an anonymization module operable to produce in response to an anonymization policy an anonymized image by causing a reduction in fidelity of at least one of a distinguishing part aspect and or characteristic of a subject depicted in a received image. In another embodiment the anonymization module further includes an anonymization module operable to produce in response to an anonymization policy an anonymized image by causing a reduction in fidelity of at least one of a person face article license plate and or label associated with a subject depicted in a received image. In a further embodiment the anonymization module further includes an anonymization module operable to produce in response to an anonymization policy an anonymized image by causing a reduction in fidelity of a feature of a subject depicted in a received digital and or analog image.

In an embodiment the anonymization module further includes an anonymization module operable to produce in response to an anonymization policy an anonymized image by causing a reduction in fidelity of a feature of a subject represented in a received digital signal. In a further embodiment the anonymization module further includes an anonymization module operable to produce an anonymized image by at least one of initiating triggering instigating bringing about and or affecting a reduction in fidelity of a feature of a subject depicted in a received image in response to an anonymization policy.

In an embodiment the communications module operable to send a signal indicative of the anonymization policy further includes a communications module operable to send a signal indicative of the anonymization policy and receivable by a local image capture device. In another embodiment the communications module further includes a communications module operable to send a signal indicative of the anonymization policy and receivable by a remotely located image capture device. In a further embodiment the communications module further includes a communications module operable to send a signal indicative of the anonymization policy and receivable by an anonymization indicator located at a location physically removed from the anonymization module.

In an embodiment the communications module further includes a communications module operable to send a signal indicative of the anonymization policy and receivable by a remotely located anonymization indicator that is coupled with an image capture system operable to capture and transmit the image. In another embodiment the communications module further includes a communications module operable to send a signal indicative of the anonymization policy and to receive the image depicting a subject. In another embodiment the device further includes an anonymization policy selector module operable to designate the anonymization policy.

In an embodiment the device further includes an anonymization policy selector module operable to choose the anonymization policy from at least two anonymization policies. In another embodiment the an anonymization policy selector module operable to choose the anonymization policy from at least two anonymization policies further includes a selector module operable to implement the anonymization policy from at least two anonymization policies. In a further embodiment the an anonymization policy selector module operable to choose the anonymization policy from at least two anonymization policies further includes a selector module operable to designate the anonymization policy in response to at least one of a received human input a selection received from an anonymization controller and or a selection algorithm. In an embodiment the anonymization policy selector module operable to choose the anonymization policy from at least two anonymization policies further includes a selector module operable to choose the anonymization policy from a library of at least two anonymization policies. In another embodiment the anonymization policy selector module operable to choose the anonymization policy from at least two anonymization policies further includes a selector module operable to choose the anonymization policy from at least two anonymization policies the selected policy persisting as the selected policy for a time.

In an embodiment the anonymization module further includes the anonymization policy selector module operable to designate the anonymization policy. In another embodiment the anonymization module further includes an anonymization policy selector module operable to choose the anonymization policy from at least two anonymization policies.

In an embodiment the device further includes a digital storage media configurable by the anonymized image. In another embodiment the device further includes a computing device . In a further embodiment the device further includes a computing device that includes the anonymization module.

In use an embodiment of the device may be operationally combined with an image capture device such as the image capture device and a display such as the display A and or the display B as described in conjunction with the exemplary environment of . The device and the display A and or the display B may be both present within the area . Alternatively the device may be remote to the area. In use the communications module of the device sends a signal indicative of an anonymization policy to the display A and or the display B. At least one of the anonymization indicator the display A and or the display B displays an indication of an anonymization policy in effect for the area in a manner that is perceivable by humans in the area. This display provides persons in the area with information about what degree of anonymization if any will be applied to pictures taken of them and or their property by an image capture device such as the image capture device . In an embodiment the anonymization may apply only to pictures acquired by the image capture device and or the anonymization policy may apply to pictures acquired by the image capture device and personal cameras used by others in the area. In response to such information about the anonymization policy in effect persons may make a decision whether to remain in the area or not and or whether to allow their cars to remain in the area or not. The anonymization module produces in response to the anonymization policy an anonymized image by causing a reduction in fidelity of a feature of a subject depicted in a received image from the device. Any persistent image saved on the device is also anonymized. The anonymized image may be persistently stored in digital storage media configurable by the anonymized image.

In an embodiment the device further includes means for displaying an indication of the privacy policy perceivable by a human proximate to the subject and near in time to a capture of the received image. In another embodiment the device further includes means for displaying an indication of the privacy policy perceivable by a human proximate to the subject and prior to a capture of the received image. In a further embodiment the device includes means for saving digital data representative of the subject depicted in the received image with the property obscured in response to the privacy policy.

In another embodiment the process of the program instructions further includes causing a displayed indication of the privacy policy perceivable by a human proximate to the subject and near in time to a capture of the received image . In a further embodiment the process of the program instructions further includes receiving the image depicting the subject . In another embodiment the process of the program instructions further includes saving digital data representative of the subject depicted in the received image with the property obscured in response to the privacy policy .

In an embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium further includes a computer storage medium. In another embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium further includes a communications medium .

In an embodiment the imaging device operable to capture an image depicting a class of subjects that may have a temporal presence in an area further includes an imaging device operable to capture an image depicting at least one instance of a class of subjects that may have a temporal presence in an area. In another embodiment the imaging device further includes an imaging device operable to capture an image depicting a class of humans adults children patrons animals objects inanimate objects cars boats airplanes and or vessels that may have a temporal presence in an area. In a further embodiment the imaging device further includes an imaging device operable to capture an image depicting a class of subjects that may have a temporal presence in a room a building a geographic locale a mall a park an intersection two or more spaced apart intersections and or a stadium.

In an embodiment the imaging device further includes the anonymization circuit illustrated as an anonymization circuit . In another embodiment the anonymization device further includes the anonymization circuit illustrated as an anonymization circuit .

In an embodiment the anonymization device having a selector circuit operable to select an anonymization policy further includes an anonymization device having a selector circuit operable to select the anonymization policy from at least two anonymization policies. The at least two anonymization policies may include at least two anonymization policies of an anonymization policy library . In another embodiment the anonymization device further includes an anonymization device having a selector circuit operable to select an anonymization policy in response to a received human originated input and or a selection methodology. The human originated input may be received from any human user interface such as for example the screen input detector hardware buttons and or microphone described in conjunction with and or the user input interface and devices coupled thereto described in conjunction with .

In an embodiment the anonymization device having a selector circuit operable to select an anonymization policy further includes an anonymization device having a selector circuit operable to select an anonymization policy where the selected anonymization policy includes decreasing a fidelity of a property of the class of subjects depicted in the captured image. In a further embodiment the anonymization device further includes an anonymization device having a selector circuit operable to select an anonymization policy where the anonymization policy includes obscuring at least one of a variable a recognizable a distinguishable and or a unique aspect of a property of the class of subjects depicted in the captured image. In another embodiment the anonymization device further includes an anonymization device having a selector circuit operable to select an anonymization policy where the anonymization policy includes obscuring at least one of a variable a recognizable a distinguishable and or a unique aspect of a property of each instance of the class of subjects depicted in the captured image. In a further embodiment the anonymization device further includes an anonymization device having a selector circuit operable to select an anonymization policy where the anonymization policy includes obscuring at least one of a face an age and or a racial aspect of at least one person depicted in the captured image. For example if the anonymization includes decreasing a fidelity of a face of a member of the class of subjects a fidelity is reduced of each human face depicted in the captured image. An example of such decreased fidelity includes the decreased fidelity of human faces A C illustrated in conjunction with . In another embodiment the anonymization device further includes an anonymization device having a selector circuit operable to select an anonymization policy where the anonymization policy includes obscuring a property of the class of subjects depicted in the captured image before at least one of a persistent storage of the captured image and or a transmission of the captured image. For example the anonymization policy may be applied to the class of subjects depicted in the captured image before the captured image is saved in a storage device such as before an anonymized captured image is saved in a storage device of the imaging device and or before an anonymized captured image is saved in a storage device of the anonymization device . In another example a captured image may be transitorily saved in a volatile memory not shown before the anonymization policy is applied and the image persistently saved in a more permanent memory and or non volatile media such as the storage and or the storage .

In an embodiment the broadcast device operable to display a human perceivable indication of the selected anonymization policy to at least a portion of the area further includes a broadcast device operable to display at least one of an audio a visual and or a tactile human perceivable indication of the selected anonymization policy to at least a portion of the area. In a further embodiment the imaging device further includes the broadcast device operable to display a human perceivable indication of the selected anonymization policy to at least a portion of the area. In another embodiment the anonymization device further includes the broadcast device operable to display a human perceivable indication of the selected anonymization policy to at least a portion of the area.

In an embodiment the anonymization circuit operable to generate an anonymized image by applying the selected anonymization policy to an image captured by the imaging device and depicting a member of the class of subjects further includes an anonymization circuit operable to generate an anonymized image by applying the selected anonymization policy to an image captured by the imaging device and depicting a member of the class of subjects. The anonymization policy is applied before the image is persistently saved. In another embodiment the anonymization policy is applied after the image is persistently saved. In a further embodiment the anonymization policy is applied contemporaneously with a saving the image to a persistently storage. In another embodiment the anonymization circuit further includes an anonymization circuit operable to generate an anonymized image by applying the selected anonymization policy to a semi permanently or permanently saved image captured by the imaging device and depicting a member of the class of subjects.

In an embodiment the system further includes a persistent storage media configurable by a digital file representative of the anonymized image. In another embodiment the imaging device further includes a persistent storage media configurable by a digital file representative of the anonymized image . In a further embodiment the anonymization device further includes a persistent storage media configurable by a digital file representative of the anonymized image .

A use of an embodiment of the system may be illustrated in conjunction with . For example one or more instances of the imaging device may be located in the area in a manner similar to the image capture device and coupled with the anonymization device which may be remote to the area . The broadcast device may be physically associated with a structure in the area such as illustrated in as the display A and or may be the broadcast device associated with the imaging device. In this example the anonymizer circuit is associated with the anonymization device. The selector circuit selects an anonymization policy for application to the area. The anonymization policy includes obscuring a property of the class of subjects depicted in a captured image. An indication of the selected anonymization policy is transmitted by a communications module of the anonymization device to a communications module of the imaging device and or a communications module not shown associated with the display A. The broadcast device is then activated and displays a human perceivable indication of the selected anonymization policy to at least a portion of the area.

An image captured by the imaging device is subjected to the selected anonymization policy. For example the selected anonymization policy may be applied to the captured image by the anonymization circuit and then may be saved in the storage of the imaging device. illustrates a possible result of an application of the selected anonymization policy. Alternatively the captured image may be communicated via the communications modules and to the anonymization device without an unanonymized version being persistently saved at the imaging device . The selected anonymization policy is then applied to the captured image by the anonymization circuit and then may saved to the storage or communicated to another storage device.

In an alternative embodiment the system further includes means for selecting the anonymization policy from at least two anonymization policies. In another embodiment the system further includes means for configuring a persistent computer readable storage media with a file representative of the obscured image.

In an alternative embodiment the operation further includes wirelessly receiving a signal corresponding to an anonymization policy. In a further embodiment the operation further includes receiving a signal corresponding to an anonymization policy in a communications device operable to broadcast the human perceivable indication of the anonymization policy to at least a portion of an area. In another embodiment the operation further includes broadcasting a human perceivable indication of the anonymization policy to at least a portion of an area from a communications device.

It will be understood by those skilled in the art that the various components and elements disclosed herein and in the drawings as well as the various steps and substeps disclosed herein and in the drawings may be incorporated together in different combinations to implement embodiments and enhance possible benefits and advantages. The exemplary system apparatus and device embodiment disclosed herein including and along with other components devices know how skill and techniques that are known in the art may be individually or in a combination to implement and or practice one or more methods and processes illustrated in and . It is to be understood that the methods and processes can be incorporated in one or more different types of computer program products with a carrier medium having program instructions encoded thereon. However it is to be further understood by those skilled in the art that other systems apparatus and technology may be used to implement and practice such methods and processes.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flow diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood that each function and or operation within such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof unless otherwise indicated. A particular block diagram operation diagram flowchart illustration environment and or example should not be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated therein. For example in certain instances one or more elements of an environment may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies equally regardless of the particular type of signal bearing media used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing media include but are not limited to the following recordable type media such as floppy disks hard disk drives CD ROMs digital tape and computer memory and transmission type media such as digital and analog communication links using TDM or IP based communication links e.g. packet links .

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. .

The herein described aspects depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

