---

title: Navigation device and method providing a traffic message channel resource
abstract: A method and a navigation device are disclosed for sharing at least one location message with at least one other device. The navigation device includes a receiver to determine a signal strength of a traffic message channel at a location, a memory to store information representing the signal strength of a traffic message channel, and at least one processor to correlate the information stored in memory to compile a traffic message channel resource and select a traffic message channel based on the traffic message channel resource and a location associated with a navigation device. The method includes determining a signal strength of a traffic message channel at a location, storing information representing the signal strength of a traffic message channel, correlating the information stored in memory to compile a traffic message channel resource, and selecting a traffic message channel based on the traffic message channel resource and a location associated with a navigation device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08335637&OS=08335637&RS=08335637
owner: Tomtom International B.V.
number: 08335637
owner_city: Amsterdam
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20071010
---
The following applications are being filed concurrently with the present application. The entire contents of each of the following applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR EARLY INSTRUCTION OUTPUT application Ser. No. 11 907 229 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR ESTABLISHING AND USING PROFILES application Ser. No. 11 907 230 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR ENHANCED MAP DISPLAY application Ser. No. 11 907 231 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD RELATING TO AN AUDIBLE RECOGNITION MODE application Ser. No. 11 907 232 filed on even date herewith NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING POINTS OF INTEREST application Ser. No. 11 907 233 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR FUEL PRICING DISPLAY application Ser. No. 11 907 234 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR INFORMATIONAL SCREEN DISPLAY application Ser. No. 11 907 235 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DEALING WITH LIMITED ACCESS ROADS application Ser. No. 11 907 243 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR TRAVEL WARNINGS application Ser. No. 11 907 244 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DRIVING BREAK WARNING application Ser. No. 11 907 227 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR ISSUING WARNINGS application Ser. No. 11 907 242 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DISPLAY OF POSITION IN TEXT READIBLE FORM application Ser. No. 11 907 241 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR EMERGENCY SERVICE ACCESS application Ser. No. 11 907 228 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING REGIONAL TRAVEL INFORMATION IN A NAVIGATION DEVICE application Ser. No. 11 907 240 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR USING SPECIAL CHARACTERS IN A NAVIGATION DEVICE application Ser. No. 11 907 239 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD USING A PERSONAL AREA NETWORK application Ser. No. 11 907 238 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD USING A LOCATION MESSAGE application Ser. No. 11 907 237 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR CONSERVING POWER application Ser. No. 11 907 236 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR USING A TRAFFIC MESSAGE CHANNEL application Ser. No. 11 907 252 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR QUICK OPTION ACCESS application Ser. No. 11 907 251 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DISPLAYING A RICH CONTENT DOCUMENT application Ser. No. 11 907 257 filed on even date herewith.

The present application hereby claims priority under 35 U .S.C. 119 e on each of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60 879 523 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 549 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 553 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 577 filed Jan. 10 2007 and 60 879 599 filed Jan. 10 2007 the entire contents of each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Navigation devices were traditionally utilized mainly in the areas of vehicle use such as on cars motorcycles trucks boats etc. Alternatively if such navigation devices were portable they were further transferable between vehicles and or useable outside the vehicle for foot travel for example.

These devices provide a user with directions and map information to direct the user from one location to another location. These devices can also provide traffic information through a traffic message channel by scanning traffic message channels and choosing a traffic message channel with the strongest signal.

In at least one embodiment of the present application a navigation device includes a receiver to determine a signal strength of a traffic message channel at a location a memory to store information representing the signal strength of a traffic message channel and at least one processor to correlate the information stored in memory to compile a traffic message channel resource and select a traffic message channel based on the traffic message channel resource and a location associated with a navigation device.

In at least one embodiment of the present application a navigation device includes an input device to receive information relating to multiple traffic message channels from each traffic message channel providers and a processor to create a traffic message channel resource from the information. The traffic message channel resource designates at least one preferred traffic message channel for multiple locations in a coverage area.

In at least one embodiment of the present application a method includes determining a signal strength of a traffic message channel at a location storing information representing the signal strength of a traffic message channel correlating the information stored in memory to compile a traffic message channel resource and selecting a traffic message channel based on the traffic message channel resource and a location associated with a navigation device.

In at least one embodiment of the present application a method includes receiving information relating to multiple traffic message channels from each traffic message channel providers and creating a traffic message channel resource from the information. The traffic message channel resource designates at least one preferred traffic message channel for multiple locations in a coverage area.

In at least one embodiment of the present application a navigation device includes means for measuring a signal strength of a traffic message channel means for storing information representing the signal strength of a traffic message channel at the location of a navigation device means for correlating the information stored in memory to compile a traffic message channel resource and means for selecting a traffic message channel based on the traffic message channel resource and a current location of a navigation device.

In at least one embodiment of the present application a navigation device includes means for receiving information relating to multiple traffic message channels from each traffic message channel providers and means for creating a traffic message channel resource from the information. The traffic message channel resource designates at least one preferred traffic message channel for multiple locations in a coverage area.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the present invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

In describing example embodiments illustrated in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the disclosure of this patent specification is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner.

Referencing the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views example embodiments of the present patent application are hereafter described. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Formerly known as NAVSTAR the GPS incorporates a plurality of satellites which work with the earth in extremely precise orbits. Based on these precise orbits GPS satellites can relay their location to any number of receiving units.

The GPS system is implemented when a device specially equipped to receive GPS data begins scanning radio frequencies for GPS satellite signals. Upon receiving a radio signal from a GPS satellite the device determines the precise location of that satellite via one of a plurality of different conventional methods. The device will continue scanning in most instances for signals until it has acquired at least three different satellite signals noting that position is not normally but can be determined with only two signals using other triangulation techniques . Implementing geometric triangulation the receiver utilizes the three known positions to determine its own two dimensional position relative to the satellites. This can be done in a known manner. Additionally acquiring a fourth satellite signal will allow the receiving device to calculate its three dimensional position by the same geometrical calculation in a known manner. The position and velocity data can be updated in real time on a continuous basis by an unlimited number of users.

As shown in the GPS system is denoted generally by reference numeral . A plurality of satellites are in orbit about the earth . The orbit of each satellite is not necessarily synchronous with the orbits of other satellites and in fact is likely asynchronous. A GPS receiver usable in embodiments of navigation devices of the present application is shown receiving spread spectrum GPS satellite signals from the various satellites .

The spread spectrum signals continuously transmitted from each satellite utilize a highly accurate frequency standard accomplished with an extremely accurate atomic clock. Each satellite as part of its data signal transmission transmits a data stream indicative of that particular satellite . It is appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art that the GPS receiver device generally acquires spread spectrum GPS satellite signals from at least three satellites for the GPS receiver device to calculate its two dimensional position by triangulation. Acquisition of an additional signal resulting in signals from a total of four satellites permits the GPS receiver device to calculate its three dimensional position in a known manner.

The navigation device is located within a housing not shown . The housing includes a processor connected to an input device and a display screen . The input device can include a keyboard device voice input device touch panel and or any other known input device utilized to input information and the display screen can include any type of display screen such as an LCD display for example. In at least one embodiment of the present application the input device and display screen are integrated into an integrated input and display device including a touchpad or touchscreen input wherein a user need only touch a portion of the display screen to select one of a plurality of display choices or to activate one of a plurality of virtual buttons.

In addition other types of output devices can also include including but not limited to an audible output device. As output device can produce audible information to a user of the navigation device it is equally understood that input device can also include a microphone and software for receiving input voice commands as well.

In the navigation device processor is operatively connected to and set to receive input information from input device via a connection and operatively connected to at least one of display screen and output device via output connections to output information thereto. Further the processor is operatively connected to memory via connection and is further adapted to receive send information from to input output I O ports via connection wherein the I O port is connectible to an I O device external to the navigation device . The external I O device may include but is not limited to an external listening device such as an earpiece for example. The connection to I O device can further be a wired or wireless connection to any other external device such as a car stereo unit for hands free operation and or for voice activated operation for example for connection to an ear piece or head phones and or for connection to a mobile phone for example wherein the mobile phone connection may be used to establish a data connection between the navigation device and the internet or any other network for example and or to establish a connection to a server via the internet or some other network for example.

The navigation device in at least one embodiment may establish a mobile network connection with the server via a mobile device such as a mobile phone PDA and or any device with mobile phone technology establishing a digital connection such as a digital connection via known Bluetooth technology for example . Thereafter through its network service provider the mobile device can establish a network connection through the internet for example with a server . As such a mobile network connection is established between the navigation device which can be and often times is mobile as it travels alone and or in a vehicle and the server to provide a real time or at least very up to date gateway for information.

The establishing of the network connection between the mobile device via a service provider and another device such as the server using the internet for example can be done in a known manner. This can include use of TCP IP layered protocol for example. The mobile device can utilize any number of communication standards such as CDMA GSM WAN etc.

As such an internet connection may be utilized which is achieved via data connection via a mobile phone or mobile phone technology within the navigation device for example. For this connection an internet connection between the server and the navigation device is established. This can be done for example through a mobile phone or other mobile device and a GPRS General Packet Radio Service connection GPRS connection is a high speed data connection for mobile devices provided by telecom operators GPRS is a method to connect to the internet.

The navigation device can further complete a data connection with the mobile device and eventually with the internet and server via existing Bluetooth technology for example in a known manner wherein the data protocol can utilize any number of standards such as the GSRM the Data Protocol Standard for the GSM standard for example.

The navigation device may include its own mobile phone technology within the navigation device itself including an antenna for example wherein the internal antenna of the navigation device can further alternatively be used . The mobile phone technology within the navigation device can include internal components as specified above and or can include an insertable card complete with necessary mobile phone technology and or an antenna for example. As such mobile phone technology within the navigation device can similarly establish a network connection between the navigation device and the server via the internet for example in a manner similar to that of any mobile device.

For GRPS phone settings the Bluetooth enabled device may be used to correctly work with the ever changing spectrum of mobile phone models manufacturers etc. model manufacturer specific settings may be stored on the navigation device for example. The data stored for this information can be updated in a manner discussed in any of the embodiments previous and subsequent.

Further it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the electronic components shown in are powered by power sources not shown in a conventional manner. As will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art different configurations of the components shown in are considered within the scope of the present application. For example in one embodiment the components shown in may be in communication with one another via wired and or wireless connections and the like. Thus the scope of the navigation device of the present application includes a portable or handheld navigation device .

In addition the portable or handheld navigation device of can be connected or docked in a known manner to a motorized vehicle such as a car or boat for example. Such a navigation device is then removable from the docked location for portable or handheld navigation use.

The server includes in addition to other components which may not be illustrated a processor operatively connected to a memory and further operatively connected via a wired or wireless connection to a mass data storage device . The processor is further operatively connected to transmitter and receiver to transmit and send information to and from navigation device via communications channel . The signals sent and received may include data communication and or other propagated signals. The transmitter and receiver may be selected or designed according to the communications requirement and communication technology used in the communication design for the navigation system . Further it should be noted that the functions of transmitter and receiver may be combined into a signal transceiver.

Server is further connected to or includes a mass storage device noting that the mass storage device may be coupled to the server via communication link . The mass storage device contains a store of navigation data and map information and can again be a separate device from the server or can be incorporated into the server .

The navigation device is adapted to communicate with the server through communications channel and includes processor memory etc. as previously described with regard to as well as transmitter and receiver to send and receive signals and or data through the communications channel noting that these devices can further be used to communicate with devices other than server . Further the transmitter and receiver are selected or designed according to communication requirements and communication technology used in the communication design for the navigation device and the functions of the transmitter and receiver may be combined into a single transceiver.

Software stored in server memory provides instructions for the processor and allows the server to provide services to the navigation device . One service provided by the server involves processing requests from the navigation device and transmitting navigation data from the mass data storage to the navigation device . According to at least one embodiment of the present application another service provided by the server includes processing the navigation data using various algorithms for a desired application and sending the results of these calculations to the navigation device .

The communication channel generically represents the propagating medium or path that connects the navigation device and the server . According to at least one embodiment of the present application both the server and navigation device include a transmitter for transmitting data through the communication channel and a receiver for receiving data that has been transmitted through the communication channel.

The communication channel is not limited to a particular communication technology. Additionally the communication channel is not limited to a single communication technology that is the channel may include several communication links that use a variety of technology. For example according to at least one embodiment the communication channel can be adapted to provide a path for electrical optical and or electromagnetic communications etc. As such the communication channel includes but is not limited to one or a combination of the following electric circuits electrical conductors such as wires and coaxial cables fiber optic cables converters radio frequency rf waves the atmosphere empty space etc. Furthermore according to at least one various embodiment the communication channel can include intermediate devices such as routers repeaters buffers transmitters and receivers for example.

In at least one embodiment of the present application for example the communication channel includes telephone and computer networks. Furthermore in at least one embodiment the communication channel may be capable of accommodating wireless communication such as radio frequency microwave frequency infrared communication etc. Additionally according to at least one embodiment the communication channel can accommodate satellite communication.

The communication signals transmitted through the communication channel include but are not limited to signals as may be required or desired for given communication technology. For example the signals may be adapted to be used in cellular communication technology such as Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM etc. Both digital and analogue signals can be transmitted through the communication channel . According to at least one embodiment these signals may be modulated encrypted and or compressed signals as may be desirable for the communication technology.

The mass data storage includes sufficient memory for the desired navigation applications. Examples of the mass data storage may include magnetic data storage media such as hard drives for example optical storage media such as CD Roms for example charged data storage media such as flash memory for example molecular memory etc.

According to at least one embodiment of the present application the server includes a remote server accessible by the navigation device via a wireless channel. According to at least one other embodiment of the application the server may include a network server located on a local area network LAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN etc.

According to at least one embodiment of the present application the server may include a personal computer such as a desktop or laptop computer and the communication channel may be a cable connected between the personal computer and the navigation device . Alternatively a personal computer may be connected between the navigation device and the server to establish an internet connection between the server and the navigation device . Alternatively a mobile telephone or other handheld device may establish a wireless connection to the internet for connecting the navigation device to the server via the internet.

The navigation device may be provided with information from the server via information downloads which may be periodically updated upon a user connecting navigation device to the server and or may be more dynamic upon a more constant or frequent connection being made between the server and navigation device via a wireless mobile connection device and TCP IP connection for example. For many dynamic calculations the processor in the server may be used to handle the bulk of the processing needs however processor of navigation device can also handle much processing and calculation oftentimes independent of a connection to a server .

The mass storage device connected to the server can include volumes more cartographic and route data than that which is able to be maintained on the navigation device itself including maps etc. The server may process for example the majority of the devices of a navigation device which travel along the route using a set of processing algorithms. Further the cartographic and route data stored in memory can operate on signals e.g. GPS signals originally received by the navigation device .

As indicated above in of the application a navigation device of an embodiment of the present application includes a processor an input device and a display screen . In at least one embodiment the input device and display screen are integrated into an integrated input and display device to enable both input of information via direct input menu selection etc. and display of information through a touch panel screen for example. Such a screen may be a touch input LCD screen for example as is well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Further the navigation device can also include any additional input device and or any additional output device such as audio input output devices for example.

The navigation device may sit on an arm which itself may be secured to a vehicle dashboard window etc. using a large suction cup . This arm is one example of a docking station to which the navigation device can be docked. As shown in the navigation device can be docked or otherwise connected to an arm of the docking station by snap connecting the navigation device to the arm for example this is only one example as other known alternatives for connection to a docking station are within the scope of the present application . The navigation device may then be rotatable on the arm as shown by the arrow of . To release the connection between the navigation device and the docking station a button on the navigation device may be pressed for example this is only one example as other known alternatives for disconnection to a docking station are within the scope of the present application .

According to embodiments of the present application a navigation device includes a receiver to determine a signal strength of a traffic message channel at a location a memory to store information representing the signal strength of a traffic message channel and at least one processor to correlate the information stored in memory to compile a traffic message channel resource and select a traffic message channel based on the traffic message channel resource and a location associated with a navigation device.

According to embodiments of the present application a navigation device includes an input device to receive information relating to multiple traffic message channels from each traffic message channel providers and a processor to create a traffic message channel resource from the information. The traffic message channel resource designates at least one preferred traffic message channel for multiple locations in a coverage area.

According to embodiments of the present application a method includes determining a signal strength of a traffic message channel at a location storing information representing the signal strength of a traffic message channel correlating the information stored in memory to compile a traffic message channel resource and selecting a traffic message channel based on the traffic message channel resource and a location associated with a navigation device.

According to embodiments of the present application a method includes receiving information relating to multiple traffic message channels from each traffic message channel providers and creating a traffic message channel resource from the information. The traffic message channel resource designates at least one preferred traffic message channel for multiple locations in a coverage area.

According to embodiments of the present application a navigation device includes means for measuring a signal strength of a traffic message channel means for storing a value representing the signal strength of a traffic message channel at the location of a navigation device means for correlating the information stored in memory to compile a traffic message channel resource and means for selecting a traffic message channel based on the traffic message channel resource and a current location of a navigation device.

According to embodiments of the present application a navigation device includes means for receiving information relating to multiple traffic message channels from each traffic message channel providers and means for creating a traffic message channel resource from the information. The traffic message channel resource designates at least one preferred traffic message channel for multiple locations in a coverage area.

According to another aspect of the present application a navigation device includes a receiver for receiving multiple traffic message channels. A traffic message channel provides traffic and or travel information. The navigation device also includes an input device to receive a user input indicating a frequency. An example display for indicating a frequency is shown in and generally referenced . Example display is displayed on the navigation device . The user indicates using arrows and a starting frequency for the navigation device to select a traffic message channel. The frequency can be any frequency within the band in which the navigation device operates. The frequency may or may not be a frequency associated with a traffic message channel.

The navigation device includes a processor to select a traffic message channel based on a signal strength starting with the indicated frequency. After receiving the indicated frequency the processor included in the navigation device evaluates the signal strength of the indicated frequency. If no traffic message channel is associated with the indicated frequency or the signal strength is too weak the processor tunes to the next frequency at which a traffic message channel is available. The process continues until the processor selects a traffic message channel with sufficient signal strength. Accordingly the selected traffic message channel is not necessarily the strongest signal available to the navigation device .

It should be noted that each of the aforementioned aspects of an embodiment of the present application have been described with regard to the navigation device of the present application. However at least one embodiment of the present application is directed to a method for selecting a traffic message channel. The method includes receiving multiple traffic message channels receiving a user input indicating a frequency and selecting a traffic message channel based on a signal strength starting with the indicated frequency. Such a method can be used in one or more implementations of a navigation device as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Thus further explanation is omitted for the sake of brevity.

In another embodiment of the present application a processor included in a navigation device can select a traffic message channel based on a planned route starting with the indicated frequency. In some applications of at least one embodiment the receiver to receive multiple traffic channels provides the processor with additional information in selecting a traffic message channel. In one example the processor can select the one of the multiple traffic message channels based on a current location of a user along the planned route. The processor selects the traffic message channel based on the indicated frequency the current location of the user and information included in the navigation device regarding traffic message channels. As such the navigation device can select a traffic message channel without measuring the signal strength of one or more traffic message channels.

In other implementations a receiver can be integrated with other components of the navigation device such as processor as shown in . The receiver includes a traffic message channel antenna internal to the navigation device as shown. In one implementation of at least one embodiment an antenna included in receiver can extend beyond the navigation device . Accordingly the antenna can be mounted to an automobile window or a different location to maximize reception of a traffic message channel depending on the particular implementation of the navigation device . In other implementations a traffic message channel antenna receiver can be a modular addition to a navigation device such that the traffic message channel antenna receiver can be acquired separately from a navigation device . The modular traffic message channel antenna receiver can subsequently be incorporated or installed into the navigation device .

In another example the processor can select the one of the multiple traffic message channels based on an expected signal strength along the planned route. If the navigation device includes information associated with the multiple traffic message channels the navigation device can predict the signal strength of a traffic message channel along a planned route. By selecting a traffic message channel based on this information the navigation device can select a traffic message channel to minimize the number of traffic message channel changes along a planned route.

Example display also includes an input option to manage traffic message channels. When the navigation device receives an input to manage channels the navigation device displays example display as shown in . Example display illustrates options available to a user of the navigation device to manage traffic message channels. Managing the traffic message channel includes designating at least one traffic message channel as preferred or blocked. When a channel is designated preferred the user may have determined the preferred traffic message channel provides better information or more relevant information to the user s particular preferences. In one implementation of at least one embodiment the processor can select the one of the multiple traffic message channels based on at least the designation. The designation can be either preferred or blocked. For example a processor can select a frequency associated with a preferred traffic channel. Additional other designations may be incorporated in other implementations. For example a designation may include a degree of preferred such that a processor can select one preferred traffic message channel over another preferred traffic message channel.

In further reference to example display a user can remove a designation of a traffic message channel by providing an input to either remove a preferred channel or unblock a blocked channel. In response to the input the navigation device displays example display as shown in . The example display allows the user to scroll up down to view the preferred blocked traffic message channels. As shown in each entry of a preferred blocked traffic message channel can include a user defined name description and or a country designator such as a flag as shown. The user can select one of the traffic message channels to undesignate the traffic message channel. In response to the user input the navigation device removes the designation of the traffic message channel.

In some embodiments of the present application a display device can be included in a navigation device to display information about a traffic message channel selected by a processor . For example a display device can display a name associated with the selected traffic message channel. As shown in example display the name of the traffic message channel is Sky radio. Displaying the name of a traffic message channel is one aspect of at least one embodiment because the name associated with a traffic message channel is often easier to remember and recall than a frequency of a traffic message channel. The name of the traffic message channel can be provided to the navigation device from the user or via the traffic message channel. In one example a navigation device includes an input device to receive an input indicating a name to a traffic message channel. Example display illustrated an input keyboard for a user to type in the name of a traffic message channel. The name is stored in memory associated with the navigation device . When the channel is selected the navigation device displays the name of the traffic message channel as entered by the user on a display device . As illustrated in example display the input device and the display device can be included in an integrate input and display device .

In another example the name is extracted from the traffic messages received from the traffic message channel. When the selected traffic message traffic channel provides multiple traffic messages each traffic message includes multiple segments. The processor determines the name of the selected traffic message based on a number of like segments in multiple traffic messages received via the receiver. In other words a traffic message channel includes its name in a segment of each traffic message sent. The processor increments a counter for each like segment. Because the name is included in most and or every traffic message the corresponding counter will have the highest value after an interval. Accordingly the processor determines the name of the traffic message channel based on the counters the segment with the highest count being associated with the name of the traffic message channel.

In another implementation of at least one embodiment a navigation device can use a counter to select a different traffic message channel. As stated above traffic message channels send multiple traffic messages. Generally as traffic or travel information is updated additional traffic messages are sent. A processor included in a navigation device increments a counter for each traffic message received. As multiple traffic messages are received the value in the counter grows. Also the processor decrements the counter for each interval in which no traffic message is received. The processor can also decrement the counter at the interval if a traffic message is received. When the counter reaches a value the processor selects a different traffic message channel. The value can be any value depending on the implementation of the navigation device . For example the value can be zero. The processor essentially prevents the navigation device from being stuck on a traffic message channel that is not transmitting traffic messages.

In one example a counter can be incremented by 1 for each traffic message received and the counter can also be decremented by 1 every two seconds. The counter is set to a value of 60 when a traffic message channel is selected and the maximum value of the counter is one hundred 100 . If no traffic messages are received the counter will reach zero in two minutes causing the processor to select a different channel. If the traffic message channel provides ten messages in five seconds the counter will be incremented by ten and decremented by five leaving the counter at 65. And so on. The counter will continue incrementing decrementing until a value is reached and a different traffic message channel is selected. Again the counter continually ensures a navigation device does not become stuck on a traffic message channel providing little or not traffic or travel information. In another example the processor can compare the traffic messages received from a traffic message channel. If the traffic messages are the same the processor may not increment the counter i.e. receiving the same information over and over is essentially receiving no information. If the traffic message continues to be redundant the processor will eventually select a different traffic message channel.

A traffic message channel generally provides information in a uniform standard. In one implementation of at least one embodiment a navigation device receives traffic messages from a traffic message channel according to a radio data system RDS standard. In another implementation of at least one embodiment a navigation device receives traffic messages from a traffic message channel according to a radio broadcast data system RBDS standard. In still other implementation of at least one embodiment other systems standards can be included such as DAB SDARS GPRS etc.

According to another aspect of the present application a navigation system for selecting a traffic message channel includes a receiver to determine a signal strength of a traffic message channel at least one location and a memory to store information representing the signal strength of a traffic message channel. The navigation system also includes at least one processor to correlate the information stored in memory to compile a traffic message channel resource and select a traffic message channel based on the traffic message channel resource and a location associated with a navigation device . As the amount of correlated information increases the traffic message resource becomes increasingly useful as a basis for the at least one processor to select the traffic message channel.

It should be noted that each of the aforementioned aspects of an embodiment of the present application have been described with regard to the navigation device of the present application. However at least one embodiment of the present application is directed to a method for selecting a traffic message channel. The method includes determining a signal strength of a traffic message channel at a location storing information representing the signal strength of a traffic message channel correlating the information stored in memory to compile a traffic message channel resource and selecting a traffic message channel based on the traffic message channel resource and a location associated with a navigation device . Such a method can be used in one or more implementations of a navigation device as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Thus further explanation is omitted for the sake of brevity.

In one implementation of at least one embodiment the at least one processor can be a first processor to correlate information stored in memory to compile the traffic message channel resource. The at least one processor can also be a second processor to select a traffic message channel based on the traffic message channel resource and a current location of a navigation device . The first processor and second processor can be the same processor in a navigation device . In another embodiment the first processor can be a processor included in a central system and the second processor can be a processor included in a navigation device . In other embodiments the first processor and second processor can be included in another device of the navigation system. For example a first processor can be included in a first navigation device and the second device can be included in a second navigation device.

The at least one processor selects a traffic message channel based on a location associated with a navigation device . The location can be a number of locations. In one implementation of at least one embodiment the location is a current location of a navigation device . The traffic message channel resource and the current location of the navigation device allow the processor to select a traffic message signal without measuring a signal strength of the selected traffic message channel. The navigation device can also measure the signal strength of the traffic message channel and or provide a traffic message counter as described above. In another implementation of at least one embodiment the location associated with the navigation device can be an expected location of a navigation device . The expected location can be used to select a traffic message channel to among other things minimize traffic message channel changes along a planned route.

The at least one processor may also select a traffic message channel based on one or more of a radio station location a radio station coverage a planned route information provided by another navigation device user and information provided by the traffic message channel. A traffic message channel is broadcast from a radio station. A location and a coverage of a radio station can indicate without measuring a sufficient signal strength of a traffic message channel. This information and other relevant information can be provided by the traffic message channel provider. Other information may include a PI code a country code a service provider ID an AF supplied in RDS and or TMC channel an access rights a subscription a price associated with a traffic message channel a message geographical scope etc. Additionally a user of a navigation device can provide information such as measured signal strengths at particular locations.

According to another aspect of the present application a navigation system for providing a traffic message channel resource includes an input device to receive information relating to multiple traffic message channels from each traffic message channel provider and a processor to create a traffic message channel resource from the information. The traffic message channel resource designates at least one preferred traffic message channel for multiple locations in a coverage area.

It should be noted that each of the aforementioned aspects of an embodiment of the present application have been described with regard to the navigation device of the present application. However at least one embodiment of the present application is directed to a method for providing a traffic message channel resource. The method includes receiving information relating to multiple traffic message channels from each traffic message channel provider and creating a traffic message channel resource from the information. The traffic message channel resource designates at least one preferred traffic message channel for multiple locations in a coverage area. Such a method can be used in one or more implementations of a navigation device as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Thus further explanation is omitted for the sake of brevity.

The traffic message resource is created from the information about the multiple traffic message channels. As the amount of information increases the traffic message resource becomes increasingly useful to a user of a navigation device included in the navigation system. The navigation device can select a traffic message channel based on the traffic message channel resource and one of a current location and a location associated with the navigation device such as a planned route described above.

Based on the information provided the traffic message channel resource designates at least one traffic message channel as preferred. Designating the traffic message channel as preferred can be based on at least one of a radio station location a radio station coverage a planned route and information provided by a user of a navigation device . Any of these types of information can be used singly or in combination in a number of implementations. Also a particular implementation may depend on one type of information over another. For example a traffic message channel resource based on radio station location may have little or no use for information related to a planned route of a user. In another implementation of at least one embodiment a user of a navigation device can also designate at least one traffic channel as one of preferred and blocked. The designation can even be provided by a user of a different navigation device .

In one implementation of at least one embodiment a navigation system can provide the traffic message channel resource to at least one user. In such an implementation the traffic message channel resource would be correlated by a central system . A user of the navigation system is a user of a navigation device . The navigation device utilizes the traffic message channel resource provided by the central system to select a traffic message channel. For example the navigation device can select a traffic message channel based on the traffic message channel resource and the user s location within the coverage area. The navigation system can provide the traffic message channel resource as an optional feature to the user of a navigation device . As an additional feature the traffic message channel resource can be updated at regular intervals e.g. monthly or semi annually.

In another implementation of at least one embodiment the navigation system can include a navigation device which includes the input device to receive information and the processor to create a traffic message channel resource from the information. The creation of the traffic message resource on a navigation device allows the user to customize the traffic message channel resource. The user can provide any of the information disclosed above such as a user designation or a radio station coverage from which the traffic message channel resource is created.

The methods of at least one embodiment expressed above may be implemented as a computer data signal embodied in the carrier wave or propagated signal that represents a sequence of instructions which when executed by a processor such as processor of server and or processor of navigation device for example causes the processor to perform a respective method. In at least one other embodiment at least one method provided above may be implemented above as a set of instructions contained on a computer readable or computer accessible medium such as one of the memory devices previously described for example to perform the respective method when executed by a processor or other computer device. In varying embodiments the medium may be a magnetic medium electronic medium optical medium etc.

Even further any of the aforementioned methods may be embodied in the form of a program. The program may be stored on a computer readable media and is adapted to perform any one of the aforementioned methods when run on a computer device a device including a processor . Thus the storage medium or computer readable medium is adapted to store information and is adapted to interact with a data processing facility or computer device to perform the method of any of the above mentioned embodiments.

The storage medium may be a built in medium installed inside a computer device main body or a removable medium arranged so that it can be separated from the computer device main body. Examples of the built in medium include but are not limited to rewriteable non volatile memories such as ROMs and flash memories and hard disks. Examples of the removable medium include but are not limited to optical storage media such as CD ROMs and DVDs magneto optical storage media such as MOs magnetism storage media including but not limited to floppy disks trademark cassette tapes and removable hard disks media with a built in rewriteable non volatile memory including but not limited to memory cards and media with a built in ROM including but not limited to ROM cassettes etc. Furthermore various information regarding stored images for example property information may be stored in any other form or it may be provided in other ways.

As one of ordinary skill in the art will understand upon reading the disclosure the electronic components of the navigation device and or the components of the server can be embodied as computer hardware circuitry or as a computer readable program or as a combination of both.

The system and method of embodiments of the present application include software operative on the processor to perform at least one of the methods according to the teachings of the present application. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand upon reading and comprehending this disclosure the manner in which a software program can be launched from a computer readable medium in a computer based system to execute the functions found in the software program. One of ordinary skill in the art will further understand the various programming languages which may be employed to create a software program designed to implement and perform at least one of the methods of the present application.

The programs can be structured in an object orientation using an object oriented language including but not limited to JAVA Smalltalk C etc. and the programs can be structured in a procedural orientation using a procedural language including but not limited to COBOL C etc. The software components can communicate in any number of ways that are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art including but not limited to by application of program interfaces API interprocess communication techniques including but not limited to report procedure call RPC common object request broker architecture CORBA Component Object Model COM Distributed Component Object Model DCOM Distributed System Object Model DSOM and Remote Method Invocation RMI . However as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the present application disclosure the teachings of the present application are not limited to a particular programming language or environment.

The above systems devices and methods have been described by way of example and not by way of limitation with respect to improving accuracy processor speed and ease of user interaction etc. with a navigation device .

Further elements and or features of different example embodiments may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of this disclosure and appended claims.

Still further any one of the above described and other example features of the present invention may be embodied in the form of an apparatus method system computer program and computer program product. For example of the aforementioned methods may be embodied in the form of a system or device including but not limited to any of the structure for performing the methodology illustrated in the drawings.

Example embodiments being thus described it will be obvious that the same may be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the present invention and all such modifications as would be obvious to one skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the following claims.

