---

title: Medical savings accounts with investment and loan-account access
abstract: Methods and systems are disclosed for managing a medical savings account that invests funds in investment accounts. A request is received for payment of a healthcare expense incurred by a party authorized for recovery under the medical savings account. A balance is drawn against a line of credit secured by one or more of the investment accounts. At least a portion of the healthcare expense is paid with funds obtained from the drawn balance. At least a portion of some of the investment accounts are liquidated in accordance with instructions provided by the party or by an owner of the medical savings account to satisfy the drawn balance of the line of credit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08438106&OS=08438106&RS=08438106
owner: Alegeus Technologies LLC
number: 08438106
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070125
---
This application relates generally to medical savings accounts. More specifically this application relates to mechanisms for funding medical savings accounts.

There are currently a variety of different types of medical spending accounts. These different accounts are managed in different ways and are generally used for different purposes but have as a common factor that they permit funds to be applied with certain income tax advantages to pay for certain healthcare expenses. As used herein healthcare expenses include a broad array of expenses that may arise in the course of diagnosing preventing curing or treating any disease that affects any part or function of the human body. They may include expenses related to teeth or other oral structures in the form of dental expenses and may include expenses related to the eye and other ophthalmic structures in the form of vision expenses. Healthcare expenses may include service fees paid to physicians dentists optometrists nurses or other medical practitioners service fees paid to laboratories that perform analyses of blood or other tissues or that operate diagnostic equipment like x ray machines magnetic resonance imaging machines and the like. Healthcare expenses may also include costs incurred to purchase rent or lease a variety of products used for healthcare. Some examples include hearing aids crutches prescription and sometimes nonprescription drugs artificial limbs and other prosthetic devices orthodontic braces and other appliances service dogs oxygen supplies and so on. These examples are merely illustrative since there are many other examples of healthcare expenses.

Different types of medical spending accounts available for these types of expenses in the United States currently include flexible spending accounts FSAs health reimbursement accounts HRAs and health savings accounts HSAs and may include other types of medical spending accounts that may be developed in the future. FSAs are financial accounts that are established as part of employer sponsored benefits plans. Employees are able to contribute a set annual amount to the accounts usually of part of a regular salary deduction that is applied to each paycheck. The employee is then able to spend the funds from the accounts to pay for healthcare expenses. Often the annual amount can be spent before the employee has completed making the contributions permitting payment for healthcare expenses effectively to be made on an interest free credit basis. Because contributions to the accounts are made as a salary reduction they are also not subject to income tax.

HRAs are financial accounts having funds that are set aside by employers to provide reimbursement for employees who incur medical expenses. The funds can be rolled over from year to year. Because they are funded by the employer rather than the employee the tax advantage for such accounts is enjoyed by the employers who qualify for preferential tax treatment in a manner similar to employers who fund insurance plans.

Of particular interest are HSAs which are financial accounts that are intended to provide for payment of unreimbursed medical expenses incurred by those who are self employed or employed by a small organization fewer than 50 employees . One qualification requirement for such accounts is that the employee be covered by a high deductible insurance plan. Funds in the account can be used on a pre income tax basis and may earn tax deferred interest. Like HRAs the funds in HSAs are available to be rolled over from year to year if they are unused.

Medical spending accounts in which funds are maintained in investments have the difficulty that the value of the investments needs to be converted to cash for them to used in supported payment of healthcare expenses. There is accordingly a need in the art for improved methods and systems of using funds in medical spending accounts.

Embodiments of the invention thus provide methods and systems of managing a medical savings account that comprises funds invested in each of a plurality of investment accounts. A request is received for payment of a healthcare expense incurred by a party authorized for recovery under the medical savings account. A balance is drawn against a line of credit secured by one or more of the investment accounts. At least a portion of the healthcare expense is paid with funds obtained from the drawn balance. At least a portion of some of the investment accounts are liquidated in accordance with instructions provided by the party or by an owner of the medical savings account to satisfy the drawn balance of the line of credit. The party authorized for recovery could be the owner of the medical savings account.

In some of these embodiments the liquidation is an automatic liquidation instructions provided by the party or by the owner of the medical savings account comprise predefined instructions provided prior to receiving the request. Examples of the predefined instructions could include specification of an order of the investment accounts for liquidation and or specification of relative percentages of the investment accounts for liquidation. In other embodiments the liquidation is a manual liquidation with the instructions provided by the party or by the owner of the medical savings account comprising a manual specification of instructions provided after paying the healthcare expense.

The medical savings account may also sometimes comprise a cash account. A second portion of the healthcare expense may be paid with funds comprised by the cash account prior to drawing the balance against the line of credit. The cash account may thus be used to receive the balance drawn against the line of credit permitting the at least a portion of the healthcare expense and the second portion of the healthcare expense to be paid with a single payment of the entire healthcare expense from the cash account. The cash account may also be used when liquation of the investment accounts results in liquidating an amount the exceeds the drawn balance. In such cases an excess of the amount over the drawn balance may be deposited into the cash account.

The medical savings account may also be configured to receive contributions. In some embodiments a received contribution is invested in at least some of the plurality of investment accounts in accordance with predefined investment instructions provided by the owner of the medical savings account. Such predefined investment instructions may also be used when liquidation of the investment accounts results in liquidating an amount that exceeds the drawn balance. An excess of the amount over the drawn balance may be reinvested in the at least some of the plurality of investment accounts in accordance with the predefined investment instructions.

Embodiments of the invention may also accommodate different mechanisms for receiving the request for payment of the healthcare expense. For example in some embodiments a debit transaction request is received over a network from a point of sale. The debit transaction request comprises an identification of the medical savings account and an identification of the amount for the healthcare expense. The debit transaction request might comprise an identification of a card associated with the medical savings account or might comprise an identification of a check associated with the medical savings account in different specific embodiments.

The methods of the invention may be embodied in a system having a communications device a storage device a processor and a memory coupled with the processor. The memory comprises a computer readable medium having a computer readable program embodied therein for directing operation of the system. The computer readable program includes instructions for operating the system in accordance with the various embodiments described above.

Embodiments of the invention provide methods and systems for using funds from medical spending accounts. While certain of the description below makes reference to HSAs as they are implemented under United States law the invention is not limited to the current structure of such accounts and may be applied more generally to any medical savings account. As used herein a medical savings account refers generally to any funding vehicle that permits funds to be invested according to the direction of the account holder and that is limited by restricting distributions of funds from the account to be made for the payment of healthcare expenses. In some instances the investment capabilities may be completely unrestricted permitting the account holder to invest funds in any investment including savings accounts stocks securities bonds real estate derivatives and so on. Different investments that may be supported by the account may have different levels of liquidity so that term instruments such as certificates of deposit may sometimes be used. In other instances the scope of permissible investments may be restricted with some forms of the medical savings account offering a limited menu of investment choices. In the same manner restrictions on the type of healthcare expenses that are eligible to be paid with distributions from the medical savings accounts may differ in different embodiments. In some embodiments any healthcare expense may legitimately be paid while other embodiments might impose a narrower schedule of healthcare expenses that are deemed to meet certain eligibility requirements.

The current implementation of HSAs in the United States are one example of medical savings accounts but such accounts include additional restrictions that need not be imposed more generally on medical savings accounts to which embodiments of the invention apply. For example the requirement that HSAs be used in conjunction with high deductible health plans is not a general feature of the medical savings accounts considered herein although it may be imposed on the accounts in specific embodiments. Similarly HSAs may be unrestricted in certain respects where other examples of medical savings accounts have imposed limitations. One example is the lack of income limits on holders of HSAs in embodiments that use different structures for a medical savings account an income limit might be imposed. Similarly while HSAs have no requirement that the account holder have earned income such a requirement might be imposed in other embodiments.

There are several other characteristics of HSAs that may or may not be included in specific embodiments for implementing medical savings accounts. These include the ability for contributions to the HSAs to be made by an individual or by that person s employer the treatment of contributions made by individuals as tax deductible specific limitations on contribution amounts including age differences on contribution limits and the like.

Embodiments of the invention provide a structure for a medical spending account that includes a cash account a line of credit and one or more investment accounts. Funds contributed to the medical spending account may be maintained in the cash account or in the investment accounts according to the direction of the account holder. The cash account may or may not be an interest bearing account in different embodiments. The availability of a line of credit essentially permits funds needed for payment of an eligible healthcare expense to be made available immediately notwithstanding the encumbrance of funds in the medical savings account being held in investment accounts. The line of credit is secured by the investments so that funds advances made according to the line of credit will generally not exceed the value of the investments. But in some specific embodiments provision may be included to permit the advance of excess funds with the line of credit. The credit extended with the line of credit is then repaid by liquidation of the supporting investments. This may be done in different embodiments according to a predetermined schedule provided by the account holder or may be specified manually by the account holder.

An illustration of how such a scheme may be implemented in a variety of embodiments is illustrated in the drawings. provides a schematic overview of an exemplary architecture that may be used for implementing methods of the invention. This architecture is centered about a medical savings account system that coordinates the exchange of information among a number of different parties as described below in implementing the functionality of the medical savings accounts. Funds identified with individual medical savings accounts are usually maintained by one or more financial institutions that are equipped to exchange data with the medical savings account system through a financial network . Usually the financial network comprises a private network that encrypts communications and implements other security protocols to protect the sensitivity of data exchanged over it.

In many embodiments all portions of a particular medical savings account will be administered by a single financial institution but this is not a requirement of the invention. In other embodiments including the one illustrated in different portions of medical savings accounts are administered by different financial institutions with the medical savings account management system being configured to coordinate functionality among them. This permits customers who interact with the medical savings account management system to control their respective medical savings accounts as easily as if all the parts of the accounts were managed by a single party. In the embodiment illustrated in the investment accounts cash account and line of credit for a particular medical savings account are provided by different financial institutions .

Interactions by customers with the medical savings account management system may be effected in a number of different ways some of which are shown explicitly in . More generally interactions with the medical savings account management system by a customer may be provided with any interface mechanism. A particularly convenient mechanism uses a debit network permitting the customer to present a debit instrument as a payment instrument for a healthcare transaction. In different embodiments the debit network may comprise a public network or may comprise a private network. The debit instrument may comprise such instruments as a check which includes identification information encoded in magnetic ink on the check. Alternatively the debit instrument might comprise a debit card issued to the customer in the form of a magnetic stripe card having identification information encoded magnetically on a magnetic stripe or in the form of a smart card having identification information encoded on a chip within the card or may comprise some other type of card. Such uses of cards represent examples of a more general class of presentation instruments that may be used with such devices as key fobs near field communication enabled wireless telephones and the like alternatively being used in some embodiments as surrogates for the debit instrument.

To initiate a debit transaction supporting the purchase of healthcare goods or services the customer presents the debit instrument so that it can be swiped or otherwise provided to a point of sale device which extracts the identification information from the debit instrument. This information may be routed to the medical savings account management system which may then apply the administration rules described below in processing the debit transaction request to approve payment for the healthcare goods or services.

Other techniques for transmitting a request to the medical savings account management system include transmission effected over a public network like the Internet . Because of the public nature of such a network it is preferable that the data be secured during transmissions with the medical savings account management system . To initiate the request using such a mechanism the customer may interact with a computational device in any of a number of different ways. The drawing provides as examples the generation of a bill payment request the use of a web portal and the use of a hosted application programming interface API . Any of these different mechanisms may be used to generate a request that is transmitted over the Internet for accessing a medical savings account to support a purchase of eligible healthcare goods or services.

Still another technique for generating a request to the medical savings account management system uses the public switched telephone network PSTN in combination with voice recognition unit VRU equipment to permit the customer to generate the request over a telephone . The request is then generated as a VRU transaction .

The medical savings account management system also comprises software elements shown as being currently located within working memory including an operating system and other code such as a program designed to implement methods of the invention. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Methods by which funds may be provided to support a healthcare transaction using a medical savings account having features like those described herein are summarized for a number of different embodiments with the flow diagram of . While this flow diagram sets forth a number of specific functions that may be performed it should be realized that the diagram is not exhaustive in showing every function that may be performed nor is it limited in showing only functions that must be performed. In various alternative embodiments some of the functions may be omitted additional functions may be added or the order of the functions may be changed.

The methods begin at block with the customer establishing a medical savings account. provides a schematic illustration of the structure of the medical savings account which includes mechanisms for maintaining investments for supplying a line of credit and a cash account . shows how certain of the functions that may be performed in connection with may result in a flow of funds among different parts of the medical savings account and to a provider of healthcare goods or services. This is done graphically with vertical bars representing the different components of the medical savings account and provider with horizontal arrows showing the flow.

Returning to the customer may be provided with an opportunity to establish investment directions for funds deposited into the medical savings account at block . These directions essentially dictate how funds that are received are to be apportioned into different investment accounts . Usually such direction takes the form of providing percentages for each of several accounts with each deposit into the medical savings account being divided according to those percentages for investment in the specific investment accounts but other techniques may alternatively be used. As previously noted the investment accounts that are available may vary depending on the structure of the medical savings account with some structures permitting funds to be routed to any investment and other structures limiting the investment options. The investment directions may include directing a portion of the funds supplied to the cash account . In instances where the customer does not provide directions at block a default apportionment may be implemented often simply directing all of the funds received to the cash account .

Block indicates that a line of credit is supplied to support the medical savings account and is secured by the investment accounts . The level of credit available may thus be tied with the total value of the investment accounts . In some instances the line of credit accordingly fluctuates with the total investment account value so that it is not possible to obtain more funds with the line of credit than are invested in the investment accounts at any given time. While the size of the line of credit may be exactly equal to the total value of the investment accounts in other instances it is some fraction of that total value to represent the possibility of the value decreasing while other parts of the method are implemented.

Block of the drawing indicates that the customer provides the funds which are invested according to the directions provided at block in the investment accounts. Often the funds are provided on a periodic basis such as when they are provided as part of a regular payroll deduction but they may be provided on a nonperiodic basis also.

The customer is provided with the ability to specify advance directions for applying investment funds for the payment of healthcare expenses. Essentially such advance directions dictate an order and or percentage application of individual investments to be made in paying eligible healthcare expenses. There are a variety of ways in which such instructions may be provided some of which are illustrated specifically below.

The goal of subsequent functions is to give effect to those advance directions when the customer receives eligible healthcare goods and or services from the provider at block notwithstanding the fact that the funds are tied up in different investments that may have different levels of liquidity. A default may be to apply funds from the cash account to the transaction before accessing any investment funds. Such a default may be implemented by checking at block whether there are sufficient funds in the cash account to support the entire transaction. If so the provider is fully paid with those funds at block . If funding of the cash account is insufficient a partial payment may be made to the provider at block using the funds that are available in the cash account. This is indicated with an arrow in to show a transfer of funds from the cash account to the provider .

The remainder of the transaction with the provider is funded by the line of credit . This may take place by transferring funds supplied by the line of credit into the cash account as indicated at block of and arrow of . Payment to the provider is then completed with the funds obtained from the line of credit as indicated at block of and arrow of . Such a mechanism may be advantageous when the cash account is maintained at a different financial institution than the line of credit by providing a convenient mechanism for all funds transmitted to the provider to be routed through the cash account as a common account. For instance the functions of blocks and may advantageously be performed substantially simultaneously so that funds provided at blocks and are provided as a single payment to the provider . This allows the transaction with the provider to be effected as a single transaction that transmits the entire amount due for the healthcare goods or services to the provider rather than dividing the transaction amount into a plurality of payments.

From the perspective of the customer and provider the transaction may thus proceed efficiently by the customer providing a transaction instrument to the provider upon receipt of the healthcare goods or services. The provider extracts information from the transaction instrument by using a point of sale device by generating a bill payment request or by any of the other mechanisms discussed in connection with . The transaction request is transmitted in much the same fashion as any conventional credit or debit transaction and a response is received confirming a transfer of the entire amount due to consummate the transaction.

After providing payment to provider the medical savings account management system may implement the advance directions for accessing funds from the investment accounts to satisfy the funds drawn against the line of credit . This may be accomplished by performing a check at block whether any advance directions have been specified. If so the investments are sold in accordance with those directions such as by liquidating investment assets in a prescribed order and or by liquidating specified portions of the investments.

If no advance directions have been specified the customer may be provided with an opportunity to provide a manual specification of investment sales at block . This may be implemented by providing an interface for the customer to access a list of the investments available to apply perhaps with additional information such as a current value of each investment its historical performance and the like. The interface could include a mechanism for the customer to provide the manual specification by indicating the amount to be applied from each investment. The investments are accordingly sold at block as specified.

Irrespective of how the investment sales are determined proceeds from those sales is applied to the line of credit at block with the corresponding flow of funds being indicated by the corresponding arrow in . In some instances the investment sales may result in an excess of funds beyond that needed to satisfy the balance due on the line of credit . For instance this might result from the manner in which the advance or manual directions for selling the investments was structured or for other reasons. In cases where this is an excess supplemental proceeds from the investment sales may be deposited in the cash account as indicated at block of and with arrow of . In some instances these proceeds may subsequently be reinvested at block with the investment directions established for the medical savings account at block in the same manner as any other deposit of funds.

Examples of the kinds of interfaces that may be provided to customers in managing their medical savings accounts and in particular for defining investment directions and liquidation directions are provided with the illustrative screen shots of . These interfaces may typically be accessed by using a web interface to the Internet over a computational device with the medical savings account management system generating the displays and receiving input provided by the customers .

For instance presents a screen interface that may be used by a customer at block of in establishing investment directions for the account. A percentage may be specified for each of a different set of investments including the cash account with the total assignment constrained to total 100 . When an assignment has been specified an enter button may be activated so that the investment directions for the account are recorded by the medical savings account management system . When funds are provided to the account for investment at block they are then invested in accordance with the specified directions.

The ordered assignment operates by completely liquidating investment assets in an order prescribed by the interface which thus includes fields for the customer to specify the liquidation order. The percentage assignment operates by liquidating investments in accordance with defined percentages and thus includes fields for the customer to specify those percentages subject to the constraint that the percentages add to 100 . In this example a radio button interface requires the customer to select either an ordered assignment or a percentage assignment although other embodiments may permit hybrid approaches. For example fields could be provided to allow the customer to specify that some fraction of a first investment be sold followed by some fraction of a second investment and so on. There are numerous options that may be permitted in different embodiments to enable the liquidation to proceed as directed by the customer .

Once the customer has selected the desired liquidation orders the instructions are confirmed by activating an enter button causing the medical savings account management system to record the selections and then apply them at blocks of as appropriate.

Thus having described several embodiments it will be recognized by those of skill in the art that various modifications alternative constructions and equivalents may be used without departing from the spirit of the invention. Accordingly the above description should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention which is defined in the following claims.

