---

title: Enriched stem cell and progenitor cell populations, and methods of producing and using such populations
abstract: The present invention provides a novel method to isolate and expand pure progenitor/stem cells from a primary tissue explant, which produces a population enriched in multipotent functional progenitor/stem cells free of contaminating fibroblasts and other cell types. Cardiac progenitor/stem cells isolated by this method maintain their self-renewal and clonogenic character in vitro and differentiate into normal cells in myocardium, including cardiomyocytes, endothelial cells, and smooth muscle cells, after transplantation into ischemic hearts. The present invention also includes substantially pure populations of multipotent progenitor/stem cells, e.g., cardiac progenitor/stem cells, and their use to treat and prevent diseases and injuries, including those resulting from myocardial infarction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08017389&OS=08017389&RS=08017389
owner: Keck Graduate Institute
number: 08017389
owner_city: Claremont
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071107
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 857 661 filed Nov. 7 2006 where this provisional application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. NIH 1RO1 HL 077602 01 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to highly purified populations of multipotent mammalian stem cells and progenitor cells including cardiac stem cells and progenitor cells having the capacity for expansion and differentiation into cardiomyocytes endothelial cells or smooth muscle cells. The present invention further relates to methods of isolating and expanding multipotent mammalian stem cells and progenitor cells and therapeutic uses thereof.

Ischemic heart disease accounts for 50 of all cardiovascular deaths and is the leading cause of congestive heart failure reference 1 . A new approach to cardiac repair is cellular therapy with stem cells such as bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells references 2 4 skeletal myoblast reference 5 adipose derived mesenchymal stem cells reference 6 and hematopoietic stem cells reference 7 . Recently resident cardiac progenitor stem cells CSCs were discovered in the adult heart references 8 13 . Resident CSCs are characterized by their capacity to self renew in culture and are multi potent for forming normal cell types in hearts. Accordingly they hold great promise for clinical applications because they are normal components of adult heart and capable of differentiating into cardiomyocyte or vascular lineages.

Previously populations of cardiac stem cells c kit Sca 1 were isolated from adult hearts by cell sorting from enzymatically digested hearts based on cell surface markers references 8 9 and 11 . However enzymatic digestion of myocardium compromises the integrity of important surface antigens of resident CSCs and leads to dysfunctional sorted cells which makes the method hard to be reproduced. More recently Messina et al. reference 10 demonstrated that some CSCs migrated from human myocardial biopsies could form cardiospheres that expressed Sca 1 c kit Flk and CD31. However these cardiospheres contained a mixture of cells including cardiac fibroblasts which grow faster than endogenous cardiac stem cells in the cardiosphere. Contamination of resulting cardiospheres with fibroblasts limits the therapeutic use of CSCs prepared from explants because the contaminating fibroblasts are less efficient for heart repair and may facilitate the scar dilation reference 14 .

Accordingly there is a need in the art for purified CSCs and substantially free of other cell types including fibroblasts as well as improved methods of isolating and expanding multipotent mammalian stem cells and progenitor cells.

The present invention provides novel methods of purifying stem cells and progenitor cells from a tissue sample resulting in a cell population greatly enriched in functional stem cells and progenitor cells. These cell populations may be used for a variety of therapeutic uses including the reconstitution of injured dead or diseased tissue. The methods of the invention may be used to purify stem cells from any tissue including e.g. cardiac brain kidney liver skin umbilical cord matrix etc. at any stage of development. In certain embodiments the tissue sample is obtained from a juvenile or adult mammal and particularly a human.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a method of preparing an isolated cell population enriched in stem cells or progenitor cells comprising culturing a tissue sample obtaining cells that migrate above adherent fibroblasts during said culturing cloning one or more cells obtained to produce one or more clonogenic populations isolating stem cells or progenitor cells from one or more clonogenic populations obtained by cell sorting using one or more cell surface or internal markers of stem cells or progenitor cells and culturing the isolated stem cells or progenitor cells in conditioned media in the absence of feeder cells thereby obtaining an isolated cell population enriched in stem cells or progenitor cells.

In one embodiment the tissue is cardiac tissue. In another embodiment the tissue is adult mammalian tissue e.g. adult human tissue .

In one embodiment the tissue sample is subjected to enzymatic dissociation. In another embodiment the tissue is cultured for a time sufficient to allow fibroblasts present in the tissue to adhere. Thus in various embodiments the tissue is cultured for at least one week at least 10 days at least two weeks or at least three weeks.

In certain embodiments the methods are performed using an agent that binds a cell surface or internal marker of stem cells selected from the group consisting of Sca 1 c Kit ATP binding cassette transporter B1 3 Flk 1 CD31 CD34 Isl1 GATA4 Nkx2.5 and the markers listed in Table 1.

In particular embodiments of these methods the stem cells or progenitor cells are cultured in the absence of additional cells such as feeder cells or support cells. In one embodiment the stem cells or progenitor cells are cultured in cell growth medium comprising conditioned medium which may be fibroblast conditioned medium. In related embodiment the isolated stem cells or progenitor cells are cultured in cell growth medium supplemented with fibroblast growth factor heregulin IGF 1 activin A SB203580 or BIO.

In certain embodiments the cell population isolated using the methods provided herein contains at least 90 stem or progenitor cells.

In another aspect the present invention provides an isolated population of mammalian tissue derived cells wherein at least 90 of the cells are stem cells or progenitor cells capable of undergoing differentiation.

In one embodiment at least 90 of the cells are cardiac stem cells or cardiac progenitor cells. In particular embodiments the cardiac stem cells and cardiac progenitor cells are capable of differentiating into one or more cells selected from the group consisting of cardiomyocytes endothelial cells smooth muscle cells and cardiac neural crest cells. In one embodiment at least 90 of the cells are Sca 1 . In a related embodiment at least 50 of the cells express GATA4 or Nkx2.5.

The present invention further includes an isolated cell population enriched in stem cells or progenitor cells prepared according to a method of the present invention.

In a further related aspect the present invention also includes a method of preparing an isolated population of differentiated cells comprising preparing an isolated cell population enriched in stem cells or progenitor cells according to a method of the present invention and inducing the stem cells or progenitor cells to differentiate. In one embodiment the differentiated cells include cardiomyocytes endothelial cells smooth muscle cells and cardiac neural crest cells. The cardiac stem cells and progenitor cells may be induced to differentiate by exposure to a differentiation factor. The differentiation factor may be e.g. a member of the transforming growth factor superfamily such as transforming growth factor bone morphogenic protein 2 bone morphogenic protein 4 and activin A.

The present invention further provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising an isolated cell population according to the present invention and a biologically compatible carrier or excipient such as 5 azacytidine cardiogenol C and ascorbic acid.

The present invention also includes methods of treating or preventing a tissue injury comprising providing a pharmaceutical composition of the present invention to a patient having an injured tissue or at risk of tissue injury. In a related embodiment the present invention includes a method of treating a patient diagnosed with a cardiac injury or disease comprising providing the pharmaceutical composition of the invention to said patient. In another related embodiment the present invention provides a method of reconstituting cardiac tissue comprising providing a pharmaceutical composition of the present invention to injured or dead cardiac tissue. In one embodiment the cardiac tissue is myocardium. In another embodiment the pharmaceutical composition comprises cardiac stem cells and or cardiac progenitor cells. In particular embodiments the cardiac injury or disease is myocardial infarct left ventricular hypertrophy right ventricular hypertrophy emboli heart failure congenital heart deficit heart valve disease arrhythmia or myocarditis. In certain embodiments the biological sample is obtained from the patient to be treated.

In a further aspect the present invention provides a kit useful for the preparation of an isolated cell population enriched in stem cells or progenitor cells comprising an agent that binds a cell surface or an internal marker of stem cells or progenitor cells and conditioned medium.

In certain embodiments the kit is useful for the preparation of an isolated cell population enriched in cardiac stem cells or progenitor cells and comprises an agent that binds a cell surface or an internal marker of cardiac stem cells or progenitor cells and conditioned medium for cardiac stem cells or progenitor cells.

In a related aspect the present invention provides a kit useful for reconstituting cardiac tissue comprising purified cardiac stem cells or cardiac progenitor cells and a vector with a reporter gene e.g. GFP under the control of a cardiac specific promoter e.g. GATA4 promoter .

In another aspect the present invention provide a method of preparing a cell population enriched in stem cells or progenitor cells comprising a culturing a tissue sample following transient enzymatic treatment to facilitate the release of stem cells or progenitor cells b obtaining cells that migrate above adherent cells during said culturing c cloning one or more cells obtained in b to produce one or more clonogenic populations by culturing the cells obtained in b at a one cell or one cell clone per well ratio d identifying a clonogenic population produced in c that proliferates and expresses one or more stem cell or differentiation markers e culturing the clonogenic population identified in d f isolating stem cells or progenitor cells from the clonogenic population cultured in e by cell sorting using one or more cell surface or internal markers of stem cells or progenitor cells and g culturing the isolated stem cells or progenitor cells in conditioned media in the absence of feeder cells thereby obtaining an isolated cell population enriched in stem cells or progenitor cells.

In yet another aspect the present invention provides a method of determining whether a tissue sample contains tissue specific stem cells or progenitor cells comprising culturing a tissue sample obtaining cells that migrate above adherent cells during said culturing diluting and culturing the cells obtained at a one cell or one cell clone per well ratio identifying cells that proliferate and determining whether a cell that proliferates expresses one or more cell surface or internal markers of stem cells or progenitor cells and one or more tissue specific markers thereby determining whether the tissue sample contains tissue specific stem cells or progenitor cells.

The present invention provides novel methods for purifying and expanding multipotent stem cells and progenitor cells from mammalian tissues. These methods may be used to prepare a substantially pure population of stem cells and progenitor cells essentially free of other contaminating cell types from a tissue sample obtained from a patient or donor. The resulting cell population is enriched in stem cells and progenitor cells capable of differentiating along two or more differentiation pathways and is therefore useful for a variety of therapeutic applications. In addition the methods of the present invention are highly efficient resulting in the expansion of millions of stem cells from a few tissue stem cells.

As described herein in one embodiment the methods of the present invention may be used to purify and expand cardiac stem cells and cardiac progenitor cells CSCs and prepare a cell population enriched in CSCs having the ability to expand in vitro and in vivo and differentiate along two or more differentiation pathways to produce cardiomyocytes endothelial cells smooth muscle cells or cardiac neural crest cells. However it is understood that the present invention may also be used to purify and expand stem cells and progenitor cells from other tissues to produce populations enriched in multipotent cells. For example multipotent stem cells and progenitor cells may be isolated from adult juvenile or fetal tissue. In addition it may be isolated from somatic tissue or embryonic tissue.

As used in the specification and appended claims unless specified to the contrary the following terms have the meaning indicated 

A stem cell refers to an undifferentiated multipotent self renewing cell. A stem cell is able to divide and under appropriate conditions has self renewal capability and can include in its progeny daughter cells that can terminally differentiate into any of a variety of different cell types. Hence the stem cell is multipotent because stem cell progeny have multiple differentiation pathways. A stem cell is capable of self maintenance meaning that with each cell division one daughter cell will also be on average a stem cell.

The non stem cell progeny of a stem cell are typically referred to as progenitor cells which are capable of giving rise to various cell types within one or more lineages. The term progenitor cell refers to an undifferentiated cell derived from a stem cell and is not itself a stem cell. Some progenitor cells can produce progeny that are capable of differentiating into more than one cell type. A distinguishing feature of a progenitor cell is that unlike a stem cell it does not exhibit self maintenance and typically is thought to be committed to a particular path of differentiation and will under appropriate conditions eventually differentiate along this pathway.

The term precursor cells refers to the progeny of stem cells and thus includes both progenitor cells and daughter stem cells.

Stem cells and progenitor cells derived from a particular tissue are referred to herein by reference to the tissue from which they were obtained. For example stem cells and progenitor cells obtained from cardiac tissue are referred to as cardiac stem cells and cardiac progenitor cells respectively.

A clonogenic population refers to a population of cells derived from the same stem cell. A clonogenic population may include stem cells progenitor cells precursor cells and differentiated cells or any combination thereof.

The term purified or enriched indicates that the cells are removed from their normal tissue environment and are present at a higher concentration as compared to the normal tissue environment. Accordingly a purified or enriched cell population may further include cell types in addition to stem cells and progenitor cells and may include additional tissue components and the term purified or enriched does not necessarily indicate the presence of only stem cells and progenitor cells.

The present invention provides methods of purifying from mammalian tissue multipotent cells e.g. stem cells and progenitor cells that retain the ability to proliferate and differentiate along two or more pathways. These methods do not require harsh enzymatic treatment of the tissue which can result in the loss of certain cell surface proteins and markers and an associated decreased ability to proliferate and differentiate. In addition the present invention provides methods of culturing expanding and cloning stem cells to produce a population highly enriched in stem cells and progenitor cells. These populations are substantially free of contaminating cell types such as fibroblasts which can result in scar formation and can compete with stem cells and progenitor cells in repopulating an injured tissue. Accordingly the present invention provides highly efficient methods of generating a population of multipotent stem cells from a small number of tissue stem cells. These methods are particularly useful in generating therapeutic amounts of multipotent stem cells from the small number of stem cells available in certain tissues such as heart tissue.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a method of purifying stem cells or progenitor cells from a tissue sample comprising culturing a mammalian tissue sample comprising stem cells or progenitor cells in vitro under conditions suitable for cell growth and for a time sufficient to permit cell adherence to the culture dish obtaining non adherent and weakly adherent cells present in the culture medium or loosely attached above the layer of adherent cells and isolating from the obtained cells those cells expressing a surface or internal marker of stem or progenitor cells.

In another embodiment the present invention further provides a method of expanding purified stem cells or progenitor cells in the absence of support cells or feeder cells such as fibroblasts. This method comprises culturing the purified stem cells and or progenitor cells in cell growth medium supplemented with conditioned medium purified growth factors or both in the absence of exogenously supplied support or feeder cells such as fibroblasts. The method may be used to clone individual stem cells by culturing purified stem cells in isolating e.g. one cell or one cell clone per culture well during expansion thereby producing clonogenic populations of stem cells.

The purification and expansion methods described above may be used in combination to obtain a population enriched in stem cells progenitor cells or both stem cells and progenitor cells. Accordingly in one embodiment the present invention provides a method of preparing a population enriched in mammalian stem cells progenitor cells or both stem cells and progenitor cells comprising culturing a mammalian tissue sample comprising stem cells or progenitor cells in vitro under conditions suitable for cell growth and for a time sufficient to permit cell adherence to the culture dish obtaining non adherent and weakly adherent cells present in the culture medium or loosely attached above the layer of adherent cells isolating from the obtained cells those cells expressing a surface or internal marker of stem or progenitor cells culturing and culturing the isolated cells in cell growth medium supplemented with conditioned medium purified growth factors or both conditioned medium and purified growth factors. The method may be used to prepare a clonogenic population of stem cells by culturing the isolated cells individually e.g. one cell or one cell clone per culture well. Thus in one embodiment the population is a clonogenic population derived from a single tissue derived stem cell.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a method of purifying stem cells progenitor cells or both stem cells and progenitor cells and a related method of preparing a cell population enriched in stem cells progenitor cells or both stem cells and progenitor cells comprising 1 culturing a tissue sample 2 obtaining cells that migrate above the layer of adherent cells during culture 3 cloning one or more cells that migrated above the adherent cells to produce clonogenic populations and 4 isolating stem cells or progenitor cells from one or more clonogenic populations by cell sorting using one or more cell surface markers or internal markers of stem cells or progenitor cells. This method may further include identifying one or more clonogenic populations having a desired phenotype such as e.g. growth or expression of stem cell markers or markers of differentiation down a desired pathway. Markers listed in Table 1 may be used for this purpose. In certain embodiments the desired phenotype is the expression of one or more genes associated with a desired differentiation pathway or cell type e.g. a cardiac cell.

In one embodiment the present invention includes a method of preparing an isolated cell population enriched in stem cells progenitor cells or both stem cells and progenitor cells comprising a three step procedure. The first step includes culturing a tissue sample obtained from an animal such as a mammal or human patient or donor. The second step includes clonegenic screening which can be performed by obtaining cells that migrate above adherent fibroblasts during culturing dispersing a single obtained cell or a single obtained cell clone per well for clonegenic screening screening to identify clones having a desired phenotype and culturing one or more clones to produce one or more clonogenic populations. Screening to identify clones having a desired phenotype may be performed e.g. by sampling a few cells from one or more clonogenic populations and staining the cytoplasm with one or more antibodies and markers associated with a desired cell type. For example when cardiac stem cells are desired clones having the desired phenotype may express one or more stem cells markers as well as or more markers of cardiac tissue such as e.g. GATA4 Nkx2.5 myosin actin and troponin. Selected clones may then be cultured to increase their number. The third step includes cell sorting using one or more cell surface or internal markers of stem cells progenitor cells or both stem cells and progenitor cells and culturing the isolated stem cells or progenitor cells in conditioned media in the absence of feeder cells thereby obtaining an isolated cell population enriched in tissue specific stem cells tissue specific progenitor cells or tissue specific stem cells and tissue specific progenitor cells. An exemplary method according to this embodiment is shown in .

In particular embodiments preferred clonogenic population for further expansion are identified based upon their having one or more desirable characteristics such as e.g. ability to proliferate formation of foci or cardiospheres or expression of one or more stem cell or progenitor cell markers or one or more markers of differentiation down a desired pathway. In certain embodiment clonogenic populations are screened for a desired characteristic using high throughput methods. Screening may be performed using a variety of techniques available. For example screening for cytoplasmic or nucleic markers may be performed by immunocytochemistry based assays or polymerase chain reaction PCR based assays such as reverse transcriptase PCR RT PCR using antibodies or oligonucleotides that bind to a polypeptide or gene more highly expressed in cells having the desired phenotype as compared to other cells.

In certain embodiments clonogenic populations are expanded prior to cell sorting by culturing the cells in suitable cell growth medium preferably in the absence of a feeder layer and in certain embodiments in the presence of conditioned media.

In particular embodiments cell sorting to purify stem cells progenitor cells or both stem cells and progenitor cells is performed using an agent that binds one or more cell surface or an internal markers of a particular subpopulation of stem cells progenitor cells or both stem cells and progenitor cells e.g. those that express one or more markers associated with differentiation down a particular pathway in order to obtain a subpopulation of stem cells progenitor cells or both stem cells and progenitor cells.

Purified stem cells and progenitor cells and cell populations comprising the same may be expanded in number by culturing the isolated stem cells and progenitor cells in conditioned media in the absence of feeder cells prior to use.

Thus in one particular embodiment the present invention includes a method of preparing a cell population enriched in stem cells and or progenitor cells comprising culturing a tissue sample following transient enzymatic treatment to facilitate the release of stem cells and progenitor cells obtaining cells that migrate above adherent cells during said culturing cloning one or more cells obtained to produce one or more clonogenic populations by culturing the cells obtained at a one cell or one cell clone per well ratio identifying a clonogenic population produced that proliferates and or expresses one or more selected stem cell or differentiation markers culturing the identified clonogenic population isolating stem cells and progenitor cells from the cultured clonogenic population by cell sorting using one or more cell surface or internal markers of stem cells and or progenitor cells and culturing the isolated stem cells and or progenitor cells in conditioned media in the absence of feeder cells.

Certain steps of the methods of the present invention including obtaining tissue samples and culturing cells may be performed using procedures and reagents known and available in the art.

The methods of the present invention therefore provide a variety of advantages over the prior art. First the purified stem cells and progenitor cells are not subjected to enzymatic treatment. When enzymatic treatment is performed only the tissue sample is transiently treated with enzymes. Second isolated purified stem cells and progenitor cells are expanded in the absence of support or feeder cells so such cells do not contaminate the resulting purified cell population. Third the methods of the present invention in certain embodiments include the cloning of individual stem cells which allows the selection of clonogenic populations having desired attributes such as e.g. expression of specific cell markers including surface markers present on desired subpopulations of stem cells and progenitor cells and robust cell growth and cytoplasmic markers such as myosin nucleic makers and transcription factors. Selection of clones having a desired attribute may be performed by high throughput methods which allows the rapid screening of a large number of clones. Fourth the final sorting and purification of the stem cells and progenitor cells based upon expression of a stem cell or progenitor cell marker and optionally a differentiation marker may be adapted to purify subpopulations of stem cells having a desired phenotype or expressing a marker that indicates it will differentiate down a desired pathway.

The enriched mammalian stem cell populations of the present invention have a variety of uses including both autologous and allogeneic therapeutic uses. Accordingly tissue samples may be obtained from patients to be treated with the purified stem cells or donors. Tissue samples may be obtained from any animal including e.g. humans primates and domesticated animals and livestock. In preferred embodiments tissue samples are obtained from mammals. Tissues may include any tissue comprising stem cells including e.g. cardiac tissue adipose tissue bone marrow gastrointestinal tissue epidermal tissue hepatic tissue neural tissue skin tissue liver tissue or umbilical cord tissue. In related embodiments tissue may be ectodermal mesodermal or endodermal in origin. Typically the tissue source is selected based upon the anticipated use e.g. if the tissue sample is being used to purify stem cells for treatment of a cardiac disease or injury it will typically be obtained from cardiac tissue. However it is understood that a tissue sample may be obtained from a tissue type different than the tissue to be treated so long as the stem cells obtained from such tissue have the capacity to differentiate into a cell type appropriate for treating the diseases or injured tissue.

A tissue sample may be isolated from a patient or donor by any means available in the art. In one embodiment the tissue sample is a primary tissue explant. In certain embodiments tissue is isolated by surgical removal or withdrawal using a needle and syringe e.g. a needle biopsy. A variety of additional procedures are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 020 196 and 5 744 360. Furthermore tissue may be isolated from any suitable location on an animal depending upon the type of tissue being isolated. Cardiac tissue may be obtained e.g. from the myocardium or a coronary blood vessel. Adipose tissue may be isolated from locations including e.g. the tail head the omentum or other abdominal location the stomach hips or thighs. Umbilical cord matrix cells are typically isolated from the matrix of the umbilical cord including Wharton s jelly. In one embodiment cardiac tissue is obtained as described reference 10 .

Tissue samples may be placed into culture without further processing or they may be processed to release cells from other tissue components by any of a variety of different means or combinations thereof. In many embodiments tissue is physically processed e.g. by cutting or mincing a tissue sample into smaller pieces. Cutting may be performed by any means available including e.g. the use of scissors scalpels razor blades needles and other sharp instruments.

In certain embodiments tissue is processed by exposure to an enzyme preparation that facilitates the release of cells from other tissue components. Examples of such enzymes include matrix metalloproteinases clostripain trypsin like pepsin like neutral protease type and collagenases. Suitable proteolytic enzymes are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 079 160 6 589 728 5 422 261 5 424 208 and 5 322 790. In one embodiment the enzyme preparation is a collagenase preparation or comprises collagenase. In related embodiments the enzyme preparation comprises one or more of trypsin like pepsin like clostripain and neutral protease type enzymes. For example one suitable enzyme preparation comprises a mixture of 0.2 trypsin and 0.1 collagenase IV.

Stem cells and progenitor cells are purified from other tissue components after or concurrent with the processing of a tissue sample. In one embodiment stem cells and progenitor cells are purified from other cells and tissue components after the tissue sample has been cultured under conditions suitable for cell growth and for a time sufficient to allow cells to adhere to the culture dish. In certain embodiments purification of cells comprises obtaining cells that migrate from the tissue sample during culture and are present in the culture media or loosely adhered to the adherent fibroblast layer. In certain embodiment these cells are small phase bright cells. These cells may be obtained by routine methods such as removing and centrifuging the media to pellet cells therein and washing the cells remaining in the culture dish with a solution such as phosphate buffered saline PBS or D Hanks to remove those cells loosely attached to the adherent cell layer. This wash solution may then also be centrifuged to obtain cells.

Tissue samples may be cultured in any of a variety of culture media capable of supporting cell viability growth and or attachment such as serum supplemented DMEM. In one embodiment explant media Iscove s Modified Dulbecco s IMDM with 10 fetal calf serum FBS 100 U ml penicillin G 100 ug ml streptomycin 2 mmol L L glutamine and 0.1 mmol L 2 mercaptoethanol is used. Tissue samples are cultured under standard environmental conditions such as 37 C. and 5 CO. Tissue samples are cultured for a time sufficient for adherent cells to adhere and stem cells to migrate above the adherent cell layer which may be e.g. approximately one week two weeks or three weeks. Generally the age of donor tissue determines the time for culture the older the tissue the longer the time it takes for the stem cells to migrate out from the explant.

In certain other embodiments purification of stem cells and progenitor cells may further comprise separating cells from certain insoluble tissue components including residual tissue material such as lipids. Cells may be separated from other tissue components by any means known and available in the art including e.g. the use of density gradients centrifugation and filtration or combinations thereof. Examples of specific methods of purifying cells are known and described in the art e.g. in U.S. Pat. No. 6 777 231. In certain embodiments negative separation methods are employed to remove one or more particular types of cells.

In order to enrich for stem cells and or progenitor cells the cells purified from the tissue sample are sorted using one or more reagents that bind to cell surface or internal markers indicative of stem cells or progenitor cells cell surface stem or progenitor cell markers . For example the present invention contemplates any suitable method of employing monoclonal antibodies to separate stem cells or progenitor cells from other cells recovered from the tissue sample. These methods include e.g. contacting a cell suspension comprising the cells purified from the tissue sample with one or a combination of monoclonal antibodies that recognize an epitope on stem or progenitor cells and separating and recovering from the cell suspension the cells bound by the monoclonal antibodies. In one embodiment cells are selected using antibodies bound to magnetic beads and a magnetic cell sorter device. In one embodiment cells are selected by fluorescence activated cell sorting FACS using fluorescently labeled antibodies. In other embodiments the monoclonal antibodies may be linked to a solid phase and utilized to capture mesenchymal stem cells from tissue samples. The bound cells may then be separated from the solid phase by known methods depending on the nature of the antibody and solid phase. Examples of monoclonal antibody based systems appropriate for preparing the desired cell population include magnetic cell sorting FACS magnetic bead paramagnetic particle column utilizing antibodies for either positive or negative selection separation based on biotin or streptavidin affinity and high speed flow cytometric sorting of immunofluorescent stained stem cells mixed in a suspension of other cells.

Exemplary cell surface or internal markers of stem cells or progenitor cells include but are not limited to Sca 1 c Kit ATP binding cassette transporter B1 3 Flk 1 CD31 CD34 Isl1 GATA4 nkx2.5 and the markers listed in Table 1.

Monoclonal antibodies that specifically bind to stem or progenitor cells are known and available in the art and many of these are specific for stem or progenitor cells derived from one or more tissue types. For example Sca 1 is a surface marker of cardiac and other somatic stem cells. In certain embodiments stem cells e.g. cardiac stem cells are isolated using antibodies specific for Sca 1. Anti Sca 1 microbeads suitable for such use are commercially available from Miltenyi Biotec. Cardiac stem cells express additional cell surface markers that can be used in their isolating including e.g. c kit Flk CD31 sca 1 ABCG2 CD133 and Stro 1. Other cell surface markers that may be used according to the present invention include but are not limited to those cell surface markers listed in Table 1 as being associated with stem or progenitor cells which may be used to select cells of their associated cell types.

According to the methods of the present invention the purified stem or progenitor cells may be expanded and or cloned in tissue culture. The present invention provides methods of expanding and cloning purified stem cells in culture in the absence of support cells such as fibroblasts.

In one embodiment purified stem or progenitor cells e.g. those obtained after cell sorting using a stem or progenitor cell specific antibody are cultured in cell growth medium. A variety of media suitable for cell growth are known in the art. Such media typically contain fetal bovine or fetal calf serum at 5 10 15 or 20 L glutamine and nonessential amino acids.

In certain embodiments purified stem or progenitor cells are cultured in cell growth medium supplemented with an additional active agent such as fibroblast growth factor heregulin IGFD 1 activin A SB203580 or BIO. For example in one embodiment the medium used is cell growth medium CGM DMEM F12 10 fetal bovine serum 200 mmol L L glutamine 0.1 mmol L mercaptoethanol 1 nonessential amino acids 1000 units ml LIF 0.1 unit ml thrombin and 5 ng ml fibroblast growth factor .

In certain embodiments the purified stem or progenitor cells are cultured in conditioned growth media. Conditioned growth media may be prepared for example by exposing media for at least 24 hours preferably 48 hours to a fibroblast culture thereby allowing it to dissolve and take up paracrine factors from the fibroblasts.

In certain embodiments the purified stem or progenitor cells may be expanded in cell growth media supplemented with conditioned growth media e.g. to achieve a final ratio of 1 1 1 2 1 3 1 4 or 1 5 cell growth media conditioned growth media .

In certain embodiments the purified stem or progenitor cells may be expanded in cell growth media supplemented with both conditioned growth media and an additional active agent such as bFGF e.g. at 5 ng ml heregulin IGF 1 activin A SB203580 or BIO. In one particular embodiment purified stem cells are expanded or cloned in conditioned CGM CCGM mixed with CGM at a 3 1 ratio and supplemented with additional bFGF at 5 ng ml.

To produce clonogenic populations of stem cells and progenitor cells purified cells may be plated a one cell or one cell clone per well ratio. In certain embodiment cells are plated in plates e.g. multiwell plates precoated with basement membrane or extracellular matrix components such as the solubulized basement membrane preparation BD Matrigel BD Biosciences .

When culturing cardiac tissue explants cardiac fibroblasts which are the majority cell population in the normal adult heart reference 19 tend to spread in sheet like extensions. They provide a feeder layer for cardiac stem cell proliferation and migration from explants reference 10 . Considering that the soluble paracrine factors produced by cardiac fibroblasts may be important for the proliferation of cardiac stem cells the present invention provides for the use of cardiac fibroblast free conditioned medium to support cardiac stem cell growth. For example cell culture medium may be conditioned by exposing it for 48 hours to fibroblast culture to extract paracrine factors from fibroblasts. In addition purified stem cells and progenitor cells may be grown on BD Matrigel which provides the required adhesion for survival and growth of cardiac stem cell because it contains mostly lamanin collagen IV and heparin sulfate proteoglycan. As demonstrated in the accompanying examples stem cells and progenitor cells could be expanded using the fibroblast free conditioned cell medium and BD Matrigel coated plates while avoiding the contamination of fibroblasts.

As described above the methods of the present invention may be used to prepare a cell population enriched in multipotent stem cells and progenitor cells. Thus in various embodiments the purified cell population comprises at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 at least 96 at least 97 at least 98 at least 99 or 100 stem cells and progenitor cells as indicated by the presence of one or more stem cell markers such as Sca 1.

The cell populations prepared according to the methods of the present invention comprise multipotent cells capable of undergoing differentiation into two or more specialized cell types. For example purified CSCs are capable of differentiating into two or more of myocytes endothelial cells smooth muscle cells and cardiac neural crest cells. In particular embodiments at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 80 at least 95 at least 96 at least 97 at least 98 at least 99 or 100 of the cells in the cell population have the capacity to undergo differentiation into two or more specialized cell types. Cardiac stem cells give rise to a variety of cells including e.g. myocytes endothelial cells smooth muscle cells and cardiac neural crest cells. Hematopoietic stem cells give rise to all types of blood cells including red blood cells B lymphocytes T lymphocytes natural killer cells neutrophils basophils eosinophils monocytes macrophages and platelets. Bone marrow stromal cells give rise to a variety of cell types bone cells osteocytes cartilage cells chondrocytes fat cells adipocytes and other kinds of connective tissue cells such as those in tendons. Neural stem cells in the brain give rise to its three major cell types nerve cells neurons and two categories of non neuronal cells astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Epithelial stem cells in the lining of the digestive tract occur in deep crypts and give rise to several cell types absorptive cells goblet cells Paneth cells and enteroendocrine cells. Skin stem cells occur in the basal layer of the epidermis and at the base of hair follicles. The epidermal stem cells give rise to keratinocytes which migrate to the surface of the skin and form a protective layer. The follicular stem cells can give rise to both the hair follicle and to the epidermis.

The ability to differentiate may be readily determined by exposing a population of cells to suitable environmental conditions and or differentiation inducers for a time sufficient to allow differentiation to occur and then examining the cells for their expression of differentiation markers. Such conditions and differentiation markers are known and available for a wide variety of cell types. For example a variety of cell surface markers are expressed in different cell types and at different stages of differentiation including those listed in Table 1. The presence of one or more of these cell surface markers may be determined by routine methods including e.g. flow cytometry and PCR based assays using antibodies or primers that bind to the markers or encoding nucleic acid sequences. By determining the presence or absence of markers associated with various paths and or stages of differentiation the skilled artisan can readily determine the differentiation path and or stage associated with a particular cell or cell population.

Examples of suitable cardiac differentiation markers include GATA4 Nkx2.5 cTnI C31 SM actin connexin43 and myosin. Examples of adipocyte differentiation markers include C EBPalpha PPARgamma adipsin leptin and UCP1. Examples of osteogenic differentiation markers include osteopontin sialoprotein osteocalcin and osteonectin. Examples of chondrogenic differentiation markers include collagen II and aggrecan. Examples of neural differentiation markers include III tublin Pax6 expression GFAP and nestin.

The methods of the present invention are particularly useful in preparing populations of stem cells and progenitor cells derived from tissues containing a relatively small number of stem cells and progenitor cells such as cardiac tissue. Thus in one particular embodiment the present invention provides a method to prepare a population enriched in multipotent CSCs and progenitor cells comprising purifying endogenous CSCs and progenitor cells from a primary heart tissue explant isolating CSCs and progenitor cells from fibroblasts by cell sorting with stem cell markers and culturing the isolated CSCs and progenitor cells. A fibroblast free culture system is used for the culturing of CSCs and progenitor cells. As described in the following examples this method yielded 97.6 pure Sca 1 cells that retained the capacity to form new cardiospheres indicating that they can renew themselves and were clonogenic. These cells were further characterized by immunostaining for cardiac specific transcription factor GATA4 and were capable of undergoing differentiation both in vitro and in vivo. When systemically injected into mice subjected to a myocardial infarction the cells gave rise to cardiomyocytes endothelial cells and smooth muscle.

Accordingly the present invention provides methods for the isolation of intact CSCs and CPCs using antibodies specific for Sca 1. This method avoids the possible enzymatic destruction of functional stem cell markers at cell surface by culturing the Sca 1 cell in a fibroblast free culture system comprising conditioned medium which supports the growth of CSCs. The resulting Sca 1 cells were demonstrated to be functional in vitro and in vivo. After been injected into mice with myocardial ischemia Sca 1 cells were detectable in the heart for up to one month after injection and differentiated to cardiomyocytes endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells. The methods of the present invention can also be used to isolate other possible types of CSCs e.g. by isolating cells using antibodies specific for c kit or ABCG2.

Cells prepared according to the methods of the invention may be used immediately or stored prior to use. The cells may be used without any further culturing or they may be cultured and or differentiated prior to use. The cells may be stored temporarily under cool conditions e.g. under refrigeration or at approximately 2 10 C. or the cells may be frozen under liquid nitrogen for long term storage. A variety of methods of freezing cells for long term storage and recovery are known in the art and may be used according to the invention including freezing cells in a medium comprising fetal bovine serum and dimethylsulfoxide DMSO .

In certain embodiments cells are differentiated prior to use. Thus any of the methods described herein may further include differentiating isolated or purified stem cells and progenitor cells. Cells may be induced to differentiate using any method available in the art. Typically cells are induced to differentiate by contacting them with one or more differentiation agents or factors which may be chemicals polypeptides nucleic acids or environmental conditions. Examples of differentiation factors include but are not limited to member of the transforming growth factor superfamily such as transforming growth factor bone morphogenic protein 2 or 4 or activin A chemical inducers such as 5 azacytidine and DMSO compounds that activate developmental signaling pathways such as Wnt and Notch and other growth factors such as VEGF and bFGF.

The present invention also provides populations of cells enriched in multipotent stem cells and progenitor cells e.g. cardiac stem cells and progenitor cells which are substantially free of or free of contaminating fibroblasts and other cells. These populations are advantageous over previously described populations of purified stem cells and progenitor cells including those prepared using harsh enzymatic treatment since they retain cell surface molecules involved in biological activity and retain the ability to differentiate into two or more specialized cell types. In addition these cell populations do not include fibroblasts which lead to undesired scar formation when administered to a wound or disease site. In addition contaminating cells such as fibroblasts can proliferate more rapidly than stem cells and compete with stem cells in repopulating a tissue site when administered therapeutically. Accordingly the cell populations of the present invention include two desirable features not previously present in populations of stem cells and progenitor cells prepared using a mammalian tissue sample 1 functional activity characterized by the ability to differentiate into two or more different specialized cell types e.g. smooth muscle cells myocytes endothelial cells or cardiac neural crest cells and 2 free of contaminating fibroblasts and other cell types.

Thus in various embodiments a purified cell population of the present invention comprises at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 at least 96 at least 97 at least 98 at least 99 or 100 stem cells and progenitor cells as indicated by the presence of one or more stem cell markers such as Sca 1.

In particular embodiments at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 at least 96 at least 97 at least 98 at least 99 or 100 of the cells in a cell population of the present invention have the capacity to undergo differentiation into two or more specialized cell types.

In another embodiment a cell population of the present invention comprises CSCs and CPCs wherein at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 at least 96 at least 97 at least 98 at least 99 or 100 of the cells in the cell population have the capacity to form cardiospheres.

In another embodiment a cell population of the present invention comprises CSCs and CPCs wherein at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 at least 96 at least 97 at least 98 at least 99 or 100 of the cells in the cell population express GATA4.

In one specific embodiment a cell population of the present invention comprises CSCs and CPCs wherein at least 95 of the cells are Sca 1CD45. In particular embodiments at least 75 at least 85 or at least 95 of the cells are capable of differentiating into a cardiacmyocyte endothelial cell smooth muscle cell or cardiac neural crest cell.

As shown in the accompanying examples the present invention provides cell populations enriched in Sca 1 cells lacking the hematopoietic stem cell markers CD45 and expressing GATA 4 which is a cardiac transcription factor references 13 and 21 . GATA4 activates the promoters of several cardiac genes such as myosin light chain Nkx2.5 troponin T troponin I MHC and ANP reference 9 . Sca 1 cells facilitate the expression of cardiac structure proteins such as myosin and connexin43. These cells also possess multipotency. After being given intravenously to mice post MI these stem cells homed to injured myocardium and differentiated into cardiomyocytes endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells in the border zone at four weeks post transplantation.

In related embodiments the cell population comprises clonogenic cells i.e. cells derived from the same stem cell.

In certain embodiments the purified cell populations of the present invention are present within a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition adapted for and suitable for delivery to a patient i.e. physiologically compatible. Accordingly the present invention includes compositions comprising a stem cell population of the present invention and one or more of buffers e.g. neutral buffered saline or phosphate buffered saline carbohydrates e.g. glucose mannose sucrose or dextrans mannitol proteins polypeptides or amino acids such as glycine antioxidants bacteriostats chelating agents such as EDTA or glutathione adjuvants e.g. aluminum hydroxide solutes that render the formulation isotonic hypotonic or weakly hypertonic with the blood of a recipient suspending agents thickening agents and or preservatives.

In related embodiments the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition that comprises the purified cell populations provided herein and a biological compatible carrier or excipient such as 5 azacytidine cardiogenol C or ascorbic acid.

In related embodiments the purified cell populations are present within a composition adapted for or suitable for freezing or storage. For example the composition may further comprise fetal bovine serum and or dimethylsulfoxide DMSO .

The present invention further provides methods of treating or preventing injuries and diseases or other conditions comprising providing a cell population of the present invention i.e. a population enriched in stem cells and progenitor cells to a patient suffering from said injury disease or condition. In particular embodiments the cell population was generated using a tissue sample obtained from the patient being treated i.e. autologous treatment . In other embodiments the cell population was obtained from a donor who may be related or unrelated to the patient i.e. allogeneic treatment . The donor is usually of the same species as the patient although it is possible that a donor is a different species i.e. xenogeneic treatment .

In various embodiments the stem cell populations and related compositions are used to treat a variety of different diseases including but not limited to inflammatory diseases cardiovascular diseases nervous system diseases tumors demyelinating diseases digestive system diseases endocrine system diseases reproductive system diseases hemic and lymphatic diseases immunological diseases mental disorders musculoskeletal diseases neuromuscular diseases metabolic diseases skin and connective tissue diseases and urological diseases.

In other embodiments the purified stem cells and related compositions are used to treat a variety of different wounds including but not limited to abrasions avulsions blowing wounds incised wounds burns contusions puncture wounds surgical wounds and subcutaneous wounds.

In specific embodiments the present invention provide a methods for treating or preventing cardiovascular diseases and injuries including but not limited to diseases of the myocardium abscess congenital heart deficit heart valve disease arrhythmia left ventricular dilatation emboli heart failure congestive heart failure subendocardial fibrosis left or right ventricular hypertrophy acute myocardial infarct organizing myocardial infarct and myocarditis. These methods comprise providing a cell population of the present invention wherein said cell population is enriched in multipotent CSCs and CPCs to a patient diagnosed suspected of having or being at risk of a cardiovascular disease or injury. In a preferred embodiment the CSCs and CPCs were isolated from the patient being treated.

In a related embodiment the present invention includes a method of reconstituting or repopulating dead or injured myocardium in a patient. This method comprises contacting a patient having injured or dead myocardium with a cell population of the present invention enriched in CSCs and CPCs. In one embodiment the patient previously suffered a myocardial infarction and or has been diagnosed with congestive heart failure. As shown in the following examples Sca 1 cells extracted and purified by methods of the present invention are multipotent and can be used to reconstitute dead myocardium by differentiating to normal components of adult hearts after being transplanted into ischemia induced heart of mice.

Myocardial infarction is one of the leading causes of congestive heart failure in the United States with median survival after onset only 1.7 years in men and 3.2 years in women reference 16 . The irreversible loss of myocytes induced by myocardial infarction leads to a sequence of congestive heart failure. The longstanding dogma of the heart as a terminally differentiated tissue incapable of regeneration has recently been challenged. Investigators from different laboratories have only recently discovered stem cells in the adult heart references 8 10 13 17 and 18 . These cells are rare but might have appropriate regenerative potential for repairing injured hearts. However myocardial failure is usually irreversible. This may be due to the inadequate numbers of resident cardiac stem cells to replace injured heart issue and the negative environment of ischemic heart for stem cell proliferation and survival.

Although the small number of resident cardiac stem cells may not be sufficient to restore heart function after MI their presence has raised the possibility of regenerating damaged heart tissue by using them if they can be expanded and purified in vitro. Oh et al. reference 9 has reported cardiac Sca 1 cells lacking hematopoietic stem cell markers CD45 and also lacking transcripts for cardiac structural genes myosin light chains but expressing the cardiac transcription factor GATA 4. Matsuura et al. reference 17 showed that adult cardiac Sca 1 cells can differentiate into beating cardiomyocytes with multipotency. However for treatment the technical difficulties lie in collecting the endogenous stem cells from adult hearts because they are rare in the heart and enzymatic digestion can destroy the integrity of stem cell markers which leads to sorted cells losing their potential as stem cells.

The methods of the present invention can be used to isolate and culture large number of CSCs free of contaminating fibroblasts which is important for clinical applications. Messina et al. reference 10 recently reported a method to culture cardiospheres from human myocardial biopsies that expressed Sca 1 c kit Flk and CD31. Myocytes constitute the majority of cardiac tissue volume however fibroblasts dominate in number and their proliferation is associated with many cardiac pathologies reference 19 . Excluding fibroblasts from cardiac stem cell culture is important because fibroblasts maintain high proliferative potential and will overgrow cardiac stem cells in cardiosphere. To avoid the contamination of fibroblast the methods of the present invention combine primary tissue explant with cell sorting to produce large numbers of purified Sca 1 cells. In certain embodiments these methods are used to isolate and purify cardiac stem progenitor cells that migrate from heart explants not from enzymatically digested heart. This avoids the direct enzymatic digestion of cardiac stem cells and maintains the integrity of stem cell marker at the cell surface.

Cell populations and related compositions of the present invention may be provided to a patient by a variety of different means. In certain embodiments they are provided locally e.g. to a site of actual or potential injury or disease. In one embodiment they are provided using a syringe to inject the compositions at a site of possible or actual injury or disease. In other embodiments they are provided systemically. In one embodiment they are administered to the bloodstream intravenously or intra arterially. The particular route of administration will depend in large part upon the location and nature of the disease or injury being treated or prevented. Accordingly the invention includes providing a cell population or composition of the invention via any known and available method or route including but not limited to oral parenteral intravenous intra arterial intranasal and intramuscular administration.

The development of suitable dosing and treatment regimens for using the cell populations and compositions described herein in a variety of treatment regimens including e.g. oral parenteral intravenous intranasal and intramuscular administration and formulation will again be driven in large part by the disease or injury being treated or prevented and the route of administration. The determination of suitable dosages and treatment regimens may be readily accomplished based upon information generally known in the art and obtained by a physician.

Treatment may comprise a single treatment or multiple treatments. In particular for preventative purposes it is contemplated in certain embodiments that purified cell populations of the invention are administered during or immediately following a stress that might potentially cause injury such as e.g. myocardial infarction.

The present invention also provides kits useful in the preparation and or use of the purified cell populations of the present invention which are enriched in stem cells and progenitor cells. For example in one embodiment a kit useful in the preparation of the purified cell populations is provided that comprises an agent that binds a cell surface marker of stem cells or progenitor cells and conditioned medium. For example a kit may include a first container comprising an antibody specific for a stem cell surface marker wherein said antibody is adapted for isolation or detection e.g. by being conjugated to a fluorescent marker or magnetic bead and a second container comprising conditioned medium. In various related embodiments the kits may further comprise one or more additional reagents useful in the preparation of a cell population of the present invention such as cell culture medium BD Matrigel coated cell culture dishes and enzymes suitable for tissue processing. The kit may also include instructions regarding its use to purify and expand stem cells obtained from a tissue sample. In other embodiments the kits may further comprise a means for obtaining a tissue sample from a patient or donor and or a container to hold the tissue sample obtained.

In another embodiment a kit for using the purified cell populations e.g. for reconstituting injured or damaged cardiac tissue is provided that comprises purified cardiac stem or progenitor cells and a vector suitable for transducing the purified cardiac stem or progenitor cells that comprises a reporter gene e.g. green fluorescent protein GFP under the control of a cardiac specific promoter e.g. GATA4 promoter . For example a kit may include a first container containing purified cardiac stem or progenitor cells and a second container containing a vector e.g. a retroviral vector that comprises the GFP gene under the control of GATA4 promoter.

Populations of Sca 1 cardiac stem cells were isolated and expanded using a two stage method involving purification of CSCs from a primary tissue explant and cell enrichment. Mouse heart tissue was cultured as previously described reference 10 with minor modification. Heart tissues were obtained from male mice 2 month old with approval of the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee of University of South Florida. Tissues were minced into small pieces and subjected to enzymatic dissociation with a mixture of 0.2 trypsin and 0.1 collagenase IV Worthington Biochemical Corp. in PBS three times for 5 minutes at 37 C. After treatment the remaining tissue fragments were cultured as explants in explant medium Iscove s Modified Dulbecco s IMDM with 10 fetal calf serum FBS 100 U mL penicillin G 100 ug ml streptomycin 2 mmol L L glutamine and 0.1 mmoL L 2 mercaptoethanol at 37 C. and 5 CO.

At 2 3 weeks after explanting of minced mouse heart tissue a layer of fibroblasts covered the culture dish and round phase bright cells with different size migrated from the adherent explants . These cells were loosely attached to the fibroblast layer and were collected periodically by simply washing with D Hanks to avoid damaging the integrity of cell surface antigen and centrifuging . The cell suspension was filtered through a 40 m cell strainer BD Falcon and cell numbers were counted. To enrich for cardiac progenitor cells Sca 1 cells were sorted from the collected cells by positive selection with anti Sca 1 microbeads Miltenyi Biotec using a magnetic cell sorter device from Miltenyi Biotec.

Newly isolated cardiac Sca 1 cells were seeded in multiwell plates precoated with Matrigel BD Bioscences in media designated cell growth medium CGM DMEM F12 10 FBS 200 mmol L L glutamine 0.1 mmol L mercaptoethanol 1 nonessential amino acids 1000 units ml LIF 0.1 unit ml thrombin and 5 ng ml basic fibroblast growth factor bFGF . This medium was conditioned by exposing it for 48 hours to fibroblast culture to dissolve paracrine factors from fibroblasts. The conditioned medium CCGM was mixed with fresh CGM medium at a 3 1 ratio sterilized by filtration and supplemented with additional bFGF at 5 ng ml.

Contrast microscope examinations showed that Sca 1 cells were bright round without fibroblast contamination . Some of them proliferated and became 2 to 3 cell aggregates in suspension after 3 to 5 days . These aggregates slowly increased in size and gradually attached to the plate. The adherent cells sprouted new round bright cells at their cell body. After 2 weeks the Sca 1 cells formed three dimensional spheres . These results demonstrate that CCGM culture medium can be used to expand Sca 1 cells from mouse myocardium.

Limiting dilution assays were performed to test whether a single Sca 1 cell from cardiosphere was able to form a sphere. Sorted Sca 1 cells were seeded into 96 well plates at 1 cell well . Only wells containing a single cell were observed daily for proliferation. They started to proliferate 3 days after seeding and a small aggregate developed after 10 days . A typical cardiosphere appeared after approximately 3 weeks indicating their capacity for self renewal. Sca 1 cells maintained sphere forming capacity in the fibroblast free CCGM medium and then they gradually became flattened and stopped proliferating.

The growth characteristics of the Sca 1 cells were determined by seeding Sca 1 cells or unsorted cells in a 100 cmdish at the seeding density of 1 10with CGM medium or conditional CGM medium which was replaced every 3 days. Cell growth curves were constructed based upon mean values measured by cell counting on day 4 day 7 day 10 day 14 and day 17 n 4 time point . shows growth curves demonstrating the effect of CCGM medium on proliferation dynamics of Sca 1 cell. Compared to CGM medium it was observed that the absence of cardiac fibroblast inhibited the proliferation of Sca 1 cells but the presence of CCGM medium improved the growth of Sca 1 cell resulting in cell growth similar to the growth curve of unsorted cardiosphere derived cells. The CCGM grown Sca 1 cells were however fibroblast free unlike the unsorted cells.

The purity of sorted Sca 1 cells was demonstrated by flow cytometry. Cultured Sca 1 cells were blocked with 5 BSA and stained with a panel of antibodies specific for Sca 1 CD45 c kit CD31 or CD34 BD Pharmingen or isotype controls. Cells were subjected to flow cytometry using BD LSRII flow cytometer and BD FACSDiva software. As shown in 97.6 of sorted Sca 1 cells were Sca 1 CD45. The Sca 1 cells lacked CD45 a marker of hematopoietic stem cells. Additional marker expression analysis indicated that Sca 1 cells also expressed another stem cell marker c kit 19.8 . The profile further suggested that a minority of cells expressed CD31 4.1 or CD34 6.5 markers.

Phenotypic analysis of newly developing mouse Sca 1 cells using immunofluorescence confocal microscopy was performed essentially as previously described reference 3 . Cells and tissue were fixed with 4 paraformaldehyde. Primary antibodies specific for ABCG2 Biotinylated antihuman 1 100 R D System c kit Biotinylated antimouse 1 100 BD Pharmingen VEGF R2 Flk 1 Biotinylated anti mouse 1 100 R D System GATA4 goat polyclonal 1 100 Santa Cruz Phospho Histone H3 Ser10 rabbit polyclonal 1 100 Upstate Myosin rabbit polyclonal 1 100 Sigma Aldrich and Connexin 43 mouse monoclonal 1 100 BD Transduction Lab were used in immunocytochemistry staining. Isotype matched antibodies were used as control. These studies indicated that the Sca 1 cells expressed other stem cell markers including c kit FIG. A ATP binding cassette transporter ABCG2 which is a marker for side population stem cells reference 15 FIG. B and the endothelial marker Flk 1 FIG. C .

To further characterize the Sca 1 cells the presence of GATA4 a cardiac specific transcription factor was examined by immunostaining. There were many GATA4 positive cells among the Sca 1 cells FIG. D with approximately 55 of the cells expressing detectable levels of GATA4. These results demonstrate that the cells express both a stem cell marker Sca 1 and a cardiac specific transcription marker GATA4 . This finding is strong evidence that Sca 1 cells from cardiospheres have entered a differentiation pathway toward a cardiomyocyte phenotype. In addition some of Sca 1 cells expressed the serine 10 phosphorylation of histone H3 FIG. E a marker of mitotic Cdc2 activity and proliferative potential.

To analyze the spontaneous differentiation of Sca 1 cell formed spheres cardiac Sca 1 cells isolated as described in Example 1 were exposed to low serum medium 2 FBS for 2 days and assayed for the expression of the cardiomyocyte structure proteins myosin and connexin43 by immunofluorescent staining. As shown in confocal immunofluorescence analysis of a cardiosphere using anti connexin43 green and anti myosin red antibodies revealed spontaneous differentiation present in the peripheral zone of sphere arrow . These results suggest that in an in vitro low serum environment Sca 1 cell formed spheres are capable of differentiating into cardiomyocytes.

The ability of Sca 1 cells to differentiate and reconstitute the myocardium in vivo was examined in mice treated with LacZ labeled Sca 1 cells. To track the cells after transplantation in the heart Sca 1 cells were genetically engineered to express the LacZ reporter gene. Sca 1 cells were transduced with the retroviral reporter vector packaged from pCL MFG LacZ plasmid Imgenex . Retronectin dishes Takara Bio Inc. were used to increase the transduction ratio of retrovirus. The transduction efficiency was evaluated by LacZ detection kit for cells InvivoGen . Transduction was measured at greater than 90 efficiency by gal staining .

Male C57 BL6 mice 4 month old were anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital 40 mg kg i.p. and mechanically ventilated. Myocardial infarction was induced via ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery 2 mm from the tip of the normally positioned left auricle as described previously reference 2 n 8 . 10 min after ligation a 200 l solution containing 1 10Sca 1 cells in PBS was intravenously injected into the mice through right jugular vein. Hearts were harvested from the mice 1 month after cell injection.

The hearts were embedded in OCT compound and sectioned at 5 m. Incorporated LacZ labeled cells were detected by the FITC conjugated anti LacZ antibody 1 500 Abcam . An anti cTnI 1 100 Santa Cruz anti CD31 biotin antibody 1 100 BD PharMingen and anti SMA 1 100 Zymed Lab were used for tissue sections. Primary antibody binding was detected via corresponding Streptavidin Alexa Fluor 488 conjugated goat anti rabbit Alexa Fluor 555 conjugated goat anti rabbit Alexa Fluor 488 conjugated or donkey anti goat Alexa Fluor 488 secondary antibodies 1 500 Invitrogen . Nuclei were counterstained with either Draq5 Alexis Biochemicals or PE Vector Lab to show nuclei. Staining was observed using a Leica TCS confocal microscope.

Donor cells were detected in the myocardium by laser confocal microscopy 1 month after cell transplantation. Double staining of sections for LacZ and cardiac specific proteins indicated that LacZ colocalized with cTnI indicating that Sca 1 cells developed into cardiac myocyte like cells after transplantation. Graft cells expressing gal also integrated into blood vessels and expressed endothelial cell marker CD31 and smooth muscle cell marker smooth muscle actin SM actin demonstrating that grafted Sca 1 cells also differentiated into endothelium and smooth muscle.

All of the above U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification and or listed in the Application Data Sheet are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that although specific embodiments of the invention have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not limited except as by the appended claims.

