---

title: Systems and methods for generating technical documents
abstract: Systems and methods for generating technical documents are provided. An exemplary embodiment of one such system includes a server computer system for generating technical documents having a database for storing information needed to generate technical documents, and a processor operable to cause the server computer system to allow multiple users to access the server computer system, input information needed to generate technical documents, and generate technical documents using the information input by the multiple users. An exemplary embodiment of one such method includes the steps of providing a server computer system operable to generate technical documents and allowing multiple users to access the server computer system, input information necessary for generating technical documents into the server computer system, and generate technical documents using the server computer system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08082277&OS=08082277&RS=08082277
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Alabama, for and on behalf of the University of Alabamaiin Huntsville
number: 08082277
owner_city: Huntsville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071221
---
This application claims priority U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60 942 146 filed on Jun. 5 2007 and entitled Document Generation Tools and 60 950 339 filed on Jul. 17 2007 and entitled System and Method for Generating Systems Engineering Plans and Other Technical Documents. The 146 and 339 applications are hereby incorporated by reference into the present application.

This invention was made with government support under Contract no. W31P4Q 05 C 0136 awarded by the Army Program Executive Office Aviation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

In 2004 the Department of Defense DoD for the United States of America determined that there was a need for the use of Systems Engineering Plans to develop complex military systems. Detailed information regarding this determination may be found in a Memorandum from the Acting Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition Technology and Logistics USDAT L dated Feb. 20 2004 and including the subject line Policy for Systems Engineering in DoD a Memocandum from the Director of Defense Systems for the USDAT L dated Mar. 30 2004 and including the subject line Implementing Systems Engineering Plans in DoD Interim Guidance and a second Memorandum from the Acting Under Secretary dated Oct. 22 2004 and including the subject line Policy Addendum for Systems Engineering. 

Information regarding the proper preparation of Systems Engineering Plans may be found in the Systems Engineering Plan SEP Preparation Guide Version 1.0 dated Aug. 15 2005 and issued by the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition Technology and Logistics Defense Systems Systems Engineering Enterprise Development as well as the Defense Acquisition Guidebook DAG particularly Chapter 4 of that guidebook which is entitled Systems Engineering. All of the documents referenced above in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference into the present application.

Despite the existence of the SEP Preparation Guide and DAG Systems Engineering Plans are complicated documents that can be difficult and time consuming to create. In addition these documents must be created multiple times during any given program because they must be approved by the appropriate Milestone Decision Authority in connection with each Milestone review for the program.

Systems and methods for generating technical documents including Systems Engineering Plans SEPs are provided. In an exemplary embodiment one such system includes a server computer system for generating technical documents having a database for storing information needed to generate technical documents and a processor operable to cause the server computer system to allow multiple users to access the server computer system input information needed to generate technical documents and generate technical documents using the information input by the multiple users.

Another exemplary embodiment includes a computer system for generating technical documents having a server computer system operable to generate technical documents using information stored in the server computer system and input by multiple users and a plurality of client computer systems connected to the server computer system using the World Wide Web the plurality of client computer systems being operable to allow the multiple users to input information necessary for generating technical documents into the server computer system and to generate technical documents using the server computer system.

An exemplary embodiment of a method for generating technical documents includes the steps of providing a server computer system operable to generate technical documents and allowing multiple users to access the server computer system input information necessary for generating technical documents into the server computer system and generate technical documents using the server computer system.

Other systems methods features and or advantages of this disclosure will be or may become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and or advantages be included within this description and be within the scope of the present disclosure.

Systems and methods for generating technical documents are provided. Technical documents that can be generated using the systems and methods disclosed herein include but are not limited to System Engineering Plans Acquisition Plans Acquisition Strategies Technical Review Entrance and Exit Checklists Technical Review Evaluation Documents Test and Evaluation Master Plan documents NASA Safety Data Packages Interface Control Documents Team Charters System Engineering Management Plans Airworthiness Criteria and Documentation Technical Manuals Requests for Proposal Documents Risk Management Plans Analysis of Alternatives Documents Initial Capabilities Documents Capabilities Development Documents Joint Capability Documents Statements of Work Cost Performance Reports Integrated Master Plans and Capabilities Production Documents.

One exemplary system includes a server computer system having a database and a processor . Database stores various different types of information needed to generate technical documents as well as the technical documents themselves. For example database stores login information username and password for users authorized to use server computer system . This information is used by processor to verify that a user attempting to log on to the system is authorized to do so.

Database stores information regarding technical documents that each user is authorized to access and each user s permission level or levels for the documents. Processor uses this information to limit each user s access to technical documents he or she is authorized to work on and to limit the types of actions that can be taken by a user with respect to one of these documents. Processor also uses this information by displaying it to users when they log on to server computer system .

Server computer system includes six 6 different user permission levels 1 reader 2 writer 3 reviewer 4 administrator 5 approver and 6 version controller. A user designated as a reader for a technical document can read the document and reviewer s comments relating to the document generate a .pdf version of the document and generate a .pdf version of a working copy of the document that includes writer s notes and reviewer s comments. Readers can send email messages to other users and can view delete and respond to email messages from other users. Readers can view information relating to changes made to sections in technical documents including the names of sections that have changes the names of users making changes to sections the dates changes were made to sections and the changes made to sections. Readers can also view previous versions of information included in sections of technical documents instructions and or questions relating to sections included in technical documents and reviewer s comments relating to sections in technical documents.

Writer designated users create technical documents by entering text tables and figures all of which are stored in database into the documents. Writers can upload images and attachments into technical documents. Writers can generate acronym lists for technical documents. The acronym list for a given technical document includes a listing of all of the acronyms included in the document and the meanings for those acronyms.

When a section of a technical document is complete a writer submits the section for review by reviewers. If a reviewer requests changes to a technical document writers implement those changes. Writers have permission to modify any text field that is not currently under review upload and delete images and attachments and generate .pdf versions of technical documents including working copies.

Reviewer designated users receive email alerts when sections of technical documents are considered complete by writers. Reviewers read these sections to determine if they are complete and ready for inclusion in the technical documents. If not reviewers make comments which are stored in database and return the sections to the writers for further work. Reviewers have permission to read text in progress send email messages make comments on sections available for review approve or reject sections available for review and generate .pdf versions of technical documents.

Users designated as administrators can associate users with technical documents and modify a user s permission levels with respect to technical documents.

Approvers receive emails when technical documents are considered ready by writers and reviewers working on the documents. Approvers read technical documents and decide whether they are ready to be submitted as a new version to the agency requiring the document e.g. the Office of the Secretary of Defense OSD etc. If an approver determines that a technical document is not ready their job is to make comments and return the technical document to the writers to address these comments. Approvers have permission to generate .pdf versions of technical documents including working copies and make comments regarding technical documents using Review Sheets which are discussed in more detail below. Approvers also have permission to view delete and reply to email messages from other users.

Version Controllers can configure technical documents and set up the title and coordination pages for these documents. In one embodiment version controllers are the only users who can change the version number for a document.

Users can be designated as readers writers reviewers administrators approvers version controllers or any combination thereof with respect to any technical document stored in database .

Database stores information regarding 1 email messages sent by users including the dates messages were sent the users the emails were sent to the technical documents associated with the emails and the email messages themselves and 2 changes made to sections of technical documents including the names of sections that have been changed the names of users making the changes and the dates the changes were made. This information is displayed to users by processor when they log on to server computer system .

Information regarding files uploaded to server computer system and available for use in creating technical documents is stored in database including file names file sizes the technical documents associated with the files the names of users who uploaded the files and the dates the files were uploaded to system . Processor displays this information to users when uploading files to system .

Database includes information regarding software modification requests filed by users. Software modification requests include feature requests requests to add features to processor bug reports requests to correct bugs in processor and other requests requests for software modifications that do not fall within the first two categories .

Information regarding frequently asked questions relating to server computer system is also stored in database . This information includes information regarding how writers reviewers and approvers use system as well as how to make title and coordinating pages for technical documents using system . This information further includes information regarding how to create upload and delete images in technical documents how to create jpegs how to view technical documents how to upload appendixes and how to create acronym lists. This information includes information regarding how to enter Integrated Product Team and planned review information how to create tables in technical documents and how data entered into system is saved. Finally this information includes information explaining how to use various icons history image maximize help check spelling message and make comment icons generated by processor in screens discussed in detail below displayed to users when using system .

Database includes information regarding the various section headings for sections included in technical documents instructions and or questions relating to the type of information to include in each section and previous versions of information included in each section. Processor displays the section headings as well as the instructions and or questions and previous versions of section information to users in order to facilitate the entry of information needed to generate technical documents into system .

Processor which may include a variety of different modules to perform the functions set forth below allows users to perform a variety of different functions with server computer system . For example processor allows multiple users to access server computer system using client computer systems and web browsers and and the Internet . Once they have accessed the system users can input information needed to generate technical documents into the system and can then generate technical documents using that information. An example of the initial screen generated and displayed to users when they initially connect to system is shown in .

Processor allows users to log on to system using a username and password and to change their passwords when desired. In one exemplary embodiment processor requires users to change their passwords after they log on to the system for the first time. Examples of screens that can be used by users to log on to the system and to change their passwords are shown in and .

After a user has logged on processor displays various types of information to users including listings of technical documents the users are authorized to work on and the user s permission levels with respect to the technical documents. An example of a screen generated by the system containing this information is shown in .

The information regarding technical documents and permission levels is included under the section entitled Available SEPs in and only includes a listing of Systems Engineering Plans or SEPs Test SEP A Test SEP B etc. . It should be noted that other embodiments may include other types of technical documents.

As discussed above processor allows users to change their passwords after they have logged on to system . This is accomplished in one embodiment by clicking on the Change Password link shown in . Clicking on this link causes processor to display the screen shown in which can then be used by users to change their passwords.

Processor allows users to upload files to system for use in generating technical documents and to delete files that have been previously uploaded. In one embodiment this is accomplished by clicking on the Manage and Upload Files link shown in which causes processor to display the screen shown in .

Users can submit requests to modify processor using system . This is accomplished in one embodiment by clicking on a File a software modification request link displayed to users . An example of the screen generated by system when this link is clicked is shown in . As shown in this figure users can request the addition of features Feature Request or the correction of bugs Bug Report . Users can also submit other requests using the Other request type.

Processor allows users to view a list of frequently asked questions regarding system . In one embodiment this is accomplished by clicking on a FAQ link . When users click on this link processor displays the screen shown in which in turn includes links to various topics relating to the use of system .

Processor allows users to perform different types of functions depending on the user s permission levels with respect to a particular technical document. For example reader designated users can view delete and reply to email messages from other users review changes made to sections of technical documents the user is authorized to read and generate current and working copy versions of these documents.

In one embodiment this is accomplished using the screen shown in which includes a Messages section a Section Change Log section and a Generate Reports link. Users view and delete emails by clicking on the View and Delete links in the Messages section. The screen generated by processor when a user clicks on the View link for an email is shown in and includes a Send a reply link that allows the user to reply to the email. This screen also includes a Go to this question link that allows the user to review the portion of the technical document associated with the email.

The Section Change Log section includes links to sections under the Section heading in in the technical document identified at the top of the screen beside the Active SEP line which in this case is Test SEP A. Processor displays the screen shown in when the first link in this section is clicked by a user. Similar screens not shown are generated when the other links in this section are clicked by a user.

The screen in includes the section heading for the section being read which in this case is the Introduction section the instructions and questions relating to the section which provide users with guidance with regard to the appropriate information to include in the section a block showing the information currently included in this section and a block including links to reviewer s comments relating to the section. Clicking on the links causes processor to generate screens not shown showing the reviewer s comments.

The screen also includes four 4 icons a preview icon located to the right of the section heading a clock or history icon and question mark or help icon and an envelope or email icon. Clicking on the preview icon causes processor to generate a preview of the information currently included in this section . Clicking on the clock icon causes processor to generate a listing of previous versions of information included in the Introduction section . The listing includes information regarding the users who replaced a previous version of the information the date the replacements occurred and Copy to Clipboard buttons that allows users to copy previous versions of information to the clipboard and then paste them back into the section.

Processor generates information regarding the type of information to include in the section when users click on the question mark icon . Clicking on the envelope icon allows users to send email messages to other users. An example of a screen generated by processor that can be used to send emails is shown in .

The screen generated by processor when a user clicks on the Generate Reports link is shown in and includes a Generate SEP button and a Generate Working Copy button. Clicking on the Generate SEP button generates a .pdf version of the technical document identified at the top of the screen beside the Active SEP line which in this case is Test SEP A. Clicking on the Generate Working Copy button generates a .pdf version of a working copy of that document which includes notes from writers and comments from reviewers. Both of these versions can be downloaded to a client computer by clicking on a Download SEP link included in another screen not shown generated by processor .

Users designated as writers can perform the same functions discussed above with respect to readers. Writers can also enter title and coordination information for a technical document information for the various sections of the technical document upload attachments for the technical document and generate an acronym list for the technical document. In one embodiment this is accomplished using a screen generated by processor that includes a Title Coordination link links for each section in the document an Attachment link and an Acronym List link. Clicking on the Title Coordination link causes processor to generate a screen not shown that allows a user to input a title and coordinating information for the technical document.

Section links include color coded folder and page icons not shown . Clicking on a folder icon causes an expanded list of links with page icons to appear below the folder icon e.g. section 1. which would include a folder icon may have sub sections 1.1 1.2 1.3 etc. all of which would have page icons . Red colored folder and page icons indicate that a section is ready to be written or edited. If a section with red folder or page icon cannot be edited the section is being viewed by another user. If this occurs blue text showing the screen name of the user currently accessing the page will be displayed. Yellow colored folder and page icons indicate that a section has been submitted for review. Green colored folder and page icons indicate that a section has been accepted by all reviewers. When all section icons in a document are colored green approvers are notified that the document is ready to be approved.

In one embodiment processor allows writers to enter various types of tables including Integrated Product Team IPT tables and planned review tables. Exemplary tables also include Change log tables Tables of Key Performance Parameters Tables of Statutory Requirements Tables of Regulatory Requirements and Tables of Certification Requirements. Processor generates screens not shown that allow users to enter text into tables add table rows and delete table rows. With respect to the Table of Key Performance Parameters processor automatically generates a list of questions for each key performance parameter which are stored in database when a user clicks on that parameter.

Clicking on one of the links for a section in the document causes processor to generate a screen that can be used by a user to input information into that section. An example of one such screen is shown in .

The screen in includes preview clock question mark and envelope icons discussed previously with respect to . These icons operate in the same manner as before and cause the generation of the screens shown in . This screen includes the block containing reviewer s comments discussed previously with respect to which can be used to review comments as indicated above.

The screen in also includes image maximize spell check and example icons as well as a Writer s Scratchpad block. The Writer s Scratchpad block is used by writers to enter notes relating to the section. These notes appear in any working copy versions of the technical document that are generated by users.

Clicking on the image icon allows a user to add an image to the section and if a desired image is not available to upload and add the desired image to the section. An example of the screen generated by processor when the image icon is clicked is shown in . This screen allows a user to upload an image to system as discussed previously with respect to and includes a thumbnail listing of images that can be added to the section. Clicking on a thumbnail causes processor to generate an enlarged view of the thumbnail not shown . When a user selects an image to be added to the section processor also generates a screen not shown that prompts the user to enter a caption for the image. Figure numbers do not have to be added because processor automatically generates these numbers.

Clicking on the maximum icon causes processor to generate an enlarged view of the block user by a writer to enter information into a section. An example of such a view is shown in . Clicking on the spell check icon causes processor to check the spelling of text included in the block used to enter information into a section. Any words not recognized by the software are highlighted red in one embodiment in another screen not shown generated by processor and the user is prompted to correct the spelling using a drop down menu including a listing of alternative spellings. When the spelling has been corrected the correctly spelled word is highlighted in blue. Clicking on the example icon causes processor to generate a listing of examples of information included in sections of other technical documents the user is authorized to access. An example of a screen containing this information is shown in .

Clicking on the Attachments link allows users to add attachments to a technical document and clicking the Acronym List link allows users to generate acronym lists for documents. An example of a screen generated by processor to add attachments is shown in . Attachments are added in a manner that is similar to the manner in which files and images are added. In one embodiment attachments may be uploaded as .pdf files. Processor automatically generates letter assignments for attachments as they are added to documents.

When a section is complete the writer submits the section for review by reviewers. Once this submission is made the writer cannot make any further changes until the section is returned by a reviewer for additional work. In one embodiment a section is completed by simply clicking on the Is this section ready to be reviewed portion of the screen shown in .

Reviewers can also perform the same functions performed by readers. Reviewers however are also responsible for reviewing the various sections in a technical document and sending comments to writers when changes need to made to those sections. An example of a initial screen generated by processor for a reviewer is shown in and an example of a screen that can be used to submit comments relating to a section in this case the Introduction section is shown in . Comments are submitted by clicking on the comment icon in which is the explanation point enclosed by a circle. Clicking on this icon causes processor to allow a reviewer to enter and send comments. An example of a screen generated by processor for this purpose is shown in .

Administrators control which users have access to technical documents included in system . Administrators can authorize users to have access to a particular technical document and can set the permissions levels for users with respect to that document. In one embodiment processor generates the screen shown in which includes a Manage Users link. Clicking on this link causes processor to generate the screen shown in which can then be used by the administrator to add or delete a user from a technical document and to modify the permission levels for a particular user with respect to the document.

Approvers approve technical documents for submission to the agency requiring the documents and submit comments if a document is not acceptable. Approvers are notified via email when the writers and reviewers associated with a document consider the document ready for approval. In one embodiment processor generates the screen shown in for use by approvers. This screen allows approvers to generate reports as discussed previously with other users the Generate Reports link and allows approvers to submit comments using a Review Sheet link. Clicking on this link generates the screen shown in which can then be used by approvers to submit comments relating to a technical document. The review sheet allows approvers to rank the priority of comments as critical change must be made in order to avoid a non concurrence significant substantive concern that must be considered and administrative editorial in nature .

Version controllers are responsible for configuring technical documents by identifying the acquisition category associated with the documents indicating whether the systems described in the documents are part of a Family of Systems FoS or a System of Systems SoS and identifying the development phase of systems described in the documents. Version controllers are also responsible for setting up the Title Coordination pages for technical documents. Example screens generated by processor for this purpose are shown in .

Another exemplary system is shown in . This system includes a main server computer system and a backup server computer system . System includes a web server service and a MySQL service both of which operate together perform the functions discussed above with respect to database and processor . System is designed to be connected to multiple client computers including client computers and using the World Wide Web . System is a backup system for system and operates in the same manner. In this regard system includes a Web Server Service and a MySQL Service . UAH Support Personnel are responsible for maintaining systems and so that they operate properly.

Server computer system of the present invention can be implemented in software e.g. firmware hardware or a combination thereof. In the currently contemplated best mode server computer system is implemented using software as an executable program and is executed by a special or general purpose digital computer such as a personal computer PC IBM compatible Apple compatible or otherwise workstation minicomputer or mainframe computer. An example of a general purpose computer that can implement server computer system is shown in .

Generally in terms of hardware architecture server computer includes processor memory omitted for simplicity and one or more input and or output I O devices or peripherals omitted for simplicity that are communicatively coupled via a local interface omitted for simplicity . The local interface can be for example but not limited to one or more buses or other wired or wireless connections as is known in the art. The local interface may have additional elements such as controllers buffers caches drivers repeaters and receivers to enable communications. Further the local interface may include address control and or data connections to enable appropriate communications among the aforementioned components.

Processor is a hardware device for executing software particularly that stored in memory. Processor can be any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with server computer system a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set a macroprocessor or generally any device for executing software instructions. Examples of suitable commercially available microprocessors are as follows a PA RISC series microprocessor from Hewlett Packard Company an 80x86 or Pentium series microprocessor from Intel Corporation a PowerPC microprocessor from IBM a Sparc microprocessor from Sun Microsystems Inc or a 68xxx series microprocessor from Motorola Corporation.

The memory can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM etc. . Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the memory can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but can be accessed by processor .

The software in memory may include one or more separate programs each of which comprises an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. In the example of the software in the memory includes a suitable operating system. A nonexhaustive list of examples of suitable commercially available operating systems is as follows a a Windows operating system available from Microsoft Corporation b a Netware operating system available from Novell Inc. c a Macintosh operating system available from Apple Computer Inc. e a UNIX operating system which is available for purchase from many vendors such as the Hewlett Packard Company Sun Microsystems Inc. and AT T Corporation d a LINUX operating system which is freeware that is readily available on the Internet e a run time Vxworks operating system from WindRiver Systems Inc. or f an appliance based operating system such as that implemented in handheld computers or personal data assistants PDAs e.g. PalmOS available from Palm Computing Inc. and Windows CE available from Microsoft Corporation . The operating system essentially controls the execution of other computer programs and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services.

The software included in server computer system may be a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When a source program then the program needs to be translated via a compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the memory so as to operate properly in connection with the operating system. Furthermore the software can be written as a an object oriented programming language which has classes of data and methods or b a procedure programming language which has routines subroutines and or functions for example but not limited to C C Pascal Basic Fortran Cobol Perl Java and Ada.

The I O devices may include input devices for example but not limited to a keyboard mouse scanner microphone etc. Furthermore the I O devices may also include output devices for example but not limited to a printer display etc. Finally the I O devices may further include devices that communicate both inputs and outputs for instance but not limited to a modulator demodulator modem for accessing another device system or network a radio frequency RF or other transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router etc.

If server computer system is a PC workstation or the like the software in the memory may further include a basic input output system BIOS omitted for simplicity . The BIOS is a set of essential software routines that initialize and test hardware at startup start the operating system and support the transfer of data among the hardware devices. The BIOS is stored in ROM so that the BIOS can be executed when server computer system is activated.

When server computer system is in operation processor is configured to execute software stored within the memory to communicate data to and from the memory and to generally control operations of the server computer system pursuant to the software. The software included with server computer system and the operating system in whole or in part but typically the latter are read by processor perhaps buffered within processor and then executed.

It should be noted that the software included with server computer system can be stored on any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with any computer related system or method. In the context of this document a computer readable medium is an electronic magnetic optical or other physical device or means that can contain or store a computer program for use by or in connection with a computer related system or method. The software included with server computer system can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM EEPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

In an alternative embodiment where server computer system is implemented in hardware server computer system including processor can implemented with any or a combination of the following technologies which are each well known in the art a discrete logic circuit s having logic gates for implementing logic functions upon data signals an application specific integrated circuit ASIC having appropriate combinational logic gates a programmable gate array s PGA a field programmable gate array FPGA etc.

The above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of this disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the accompanying claims.

