---

title: System for integrating security and access for facilities and information systems
abstract: A system for integrating security and access for facilities and information systems is provided including a computer server, information systems, and facility protection systems. The information systems and facility protection systems are coupled for communication to the computer server via a network. Facility protection systems represent an access control system for controlling entry/exit to areas of buildings, such as with badges or other ID Credentials and other systems, such as intrusion detection and fire systems, to provide protection in facility environments. Information systems each represent a computer system requiring user authorization, via computers or terminals capable of connecting thereto, to access information resources or network environments protected by the computer system. Information systems may also include information protection systems requiring user authorization for external access to other information systems. The computer server has a central database which stores at least information defining users and their access privileges to the information systems and to areas of facilities controlled by access control system. Each of the information systems and facility protection systems sends event data to the computer server when an event occurs on its respective system, and an event transaction processor in the computer server determines action(s), if any, to take in response to one or more received events and accordingly sends action data to other information systems and facility protection systems to instruct such systems to automatically respond to security risks representing by such events in real-time. Central management of users and their access privileges, and monitoring of events is further provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07752652&OS=07752652&RS=07752652
owner: Lenel Systems International, Inc.
number: 07752652
owner_city: Pittsford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071108
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 906 554 filed Jul. 16 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 380 279.

The present invention relates to a system and method for integrating security and access to facilities and information systems and relates particularly to a system for integrating security in the facilities physical environment provided by facility protection systems with security access to data and network environments provided by information systems. Facility protection systems may represent an access control system for controlling entry exit to areas of buildings fire system and intrusion detection system or other physical environment protection systems such as digital video recording and surveillance system building automation system or personal alarm safety system. Information systems each represent a computer system requiring user authorization via computers terminals or other computer based devices in communication thereto to access the information resources and network environments protected by the computer system. Information systems may also include information protection systems requiring user authorization for external access to other information systems. The invention is useful for enabling events occurring at a facility protection system or information system that may pose a security risk to automatically cause actions in accordance with such events in other facility protection systems or information systems such that the security risk may be responded to automatically and in real time in both the facilities physical environment and the data and network environments protected by information systems. In addition the invention is useful for central management of users and their access privileges and integrated monitoring of events at facility protection systems and information systems.

Conventionally electronic access control to areas of buildings involve access controllers coupled to readers and similar devices which control locking mechanisms to doors accessing areas of buildings. Access decisions responsive to a badge or other user identifying means read by such readers are based on information stored in a central computer database or in local databases of the access controllers. Such facilities access control systems are described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 839 640 and 4 218 690 and also the ONGUARD systems sold by Lenel Systems International Inc. Rochester N.Y. Events detected by access control systems indicating that security has been compromised can be monitored by security personnel but are not capable of automatically affecting user access in information systems such as Windows NT Windows 2000 or Unix servers which often have terminals or computers located in the same physical environment controlled by the facility s access control systems. Typically access to information is provided by user authorization such as Login ID and associated password maintained by a system administrator. As a result a user whose access privileges to areas of a building have been discontinued often continues to have access to sensitive data maintained on information systems for a period of time i.e. until a system administrator for the information systems is notified and then updates the user s access to the information systems such as by disabling their Login IDs and passwords.

Similarly at an information system a user whose access such as by Login ID and password may have been blocked can often continue to having access to areas of a building for a period of time i.e. until an administrator of the facility s access control system is notified and then changes the user s privileges to access such areas. The delay between the blocking of access to an information system or facilities access control system after a security breach is detected may be minutes hours or days depending on the responsiveness of personnel and effectiveness of company policy and procedures. Such a delay can be detrimental to the ability of a company government organization or other institution to protect sensitive information. Further often other types of facility protection systems are provided in the same environment as the access control system including digital video surveillance fire and intrusion detection burglar systems which may detect events posing risk to a facility personnel and information systems. Such events although reported to security personnel monitoring facility protection systems do not necessarily cause any automatic actions to protect data maintained by the information system or in the case of intrusion detection break in limit door exits by the access control system in the area of the detected intrusion.

Accordingly it would be desirable to provide integrated monitoring and real time response to events occurring in facilities physical environment protected by facility protection systems such as access control systems fire and intrusion detection systems and data and network environments of information systems respectively such that events occurring in facility protection systems can cause actions at information systems to protect access to data and networks and events occurring at information systems can cause actions at facility systems to protect facilities controlled monitored by such facility protection systems. Furthermore it would also be desirable to integrate the management of users and their access privileges to the facility environment controlled by a facility s access control system with user and access privileges to the data and network environments controlled by information systems.

Complex login procedures have been developed for information systems to increase secure access to such systems such as described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 035 405 5 887 140 5 892 901 5 970 227 and 5 712 973. Such login procedures have involved the use of other login means such as biometric fingerprint smart cards security tokens or badge ID information often with authorization circuitry coupled to terminals of information systems enabling reading of such information. However such information systems do not link access to information systems with access to facilities in which the management of users and access privileges to facilities and information system are integrated in a single system.

Accordingly the principal object of the present invention is to provide a system and method for integrating security and access to facilities and information systems.

An object of the present invention is to provide a system for integrating security and access to facilities and information systems in which events detected by facility protection systems can automatically cause actions at information systems and vice versa in real time.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a system and method for integrating security and access to facilities controlled or monitored by facility protection systems with security and access to information systems by linking such systems using a computer server capable of responding to events at such systems and integrating management or user and access privileges to such systems.

A further object of the present invention is to provide a system for integrating security and access for facilities and information systems that provides integrated centralized monitoring for events generated by facility protection systems and information systems.

Briefly described the present invention embodies a system including a computer server system referred to herein as the security server facility protection systems and information systems where the facility protection systems and information systems are coupled to the security server by a data communication network. Facility protection systems represent an access control system for controlling entry exit to areas of buildings and one or more other systems such as fire system intrusion detection burglar system and digital video recording system. Information systems each represent a computer system such as a computer server e.g. Windows NT or Unix servers requiring user authorization via computers terminals or other computer based devices capable of communication to the computer system to access the information resources e.g. databases and network environments protected by the computer system. Information systems may also include external access protection system e.g. firewall or Virtual Private Network requiring user authorization to enable external access to other information systems that protect information resources and network environments such as described above. User authorization may refer to any authorization means such as smart cards biometrics e.g. face retina or fingerprint recognition security tokens and PIN or Login ID and password to access the data and network environments maintained by information systems. The security server has a central database that stores at least information defining users user data their access privileges to entry exit to areas of buildings by the access control system and their access privileges to the information systems. The central database may also store information defining the users access privileges for masking of zones monitored by the intrusion detection system. Each of the information systems and facility protection systems sends event data packets to the security server when an event occurs on their respective system with information about the event. The security server stores received events chronologically in an event log in the central database and an event transaction processor in the security server determines the action s if any to take in response to the received event data packets. When an event from one of the facility protection systems is received and action is required action data packets are sent by the security server to information systems and or one or more other facility protection systems instructing them to take an action in accordance with the event. Similarly when an event from an information system is received and action is required an action data packet is sent by the security server to one or more facility protection systems or other information systems instructing them to take an action in accordance with the event. The security server formats each action data packet to include a command in accordance with the instruction set of respective system to receive the action data packet. Each of the information systems and facility protection systems may have an interface hardware and software which directs their respective system to respond to commands of received action data packets thereby instructing such systems to automatically respond in real time to events received by the security server. The interface further collects events occurring at their respective system and formats such events in one or more event data packets for transmission to the security server and storage in the event log in the central database.

The security server provides for download of user data including security information e.g. access privilege information from the central database to the access control system when such user data affecting security is changed added deleted or revised in the central database. The security server further updates access privileges to information systems when user data affecting security is changed added deleted or revised in the central database. Such changes may be made as a result of changes in an external database or repository such as maintained by a human resources HR department of an organization in which changes in the external database are mapped by the security server to records of tables stored in the central database for such user data. Based on such user data received from the external database the security server determines the access privileges for facility protection systems which control access the access control system access entry exit to areas of buildings and or the intrusion detection system masking of monitored zones and access privileges for information systems. The central database may be reviewed and changed by one or more administration computer systems clients in data communication with the security server via the network or other network or connection such as to integrate management of users and their ID Credentials such as badges smart cards tokens biometric information login ID or passwords needed to access protected facilities and information systems. Events especially events representing alarms potential security risks received by the security server are provided to one or more alarm monitoring systems clients in data communication with the security server via the network or other network or connection thereby integrating monitoring of events at facility protection systems and information systems.

Although facility protection systems are described as access control fire intrusion detection and digital video recording systems they may include other types of systems such as a building automation system intercom system personal safety alarm systems or asset tracking and management systems or other systems typically used for protection and management of personnel and property in facilities environments.

Referring to a system is shown having a computer server system referred to herein as the security server with memory storing a central database . The security server represents a network capable computer system and memory storing central database may be a hard disk drive or a separate memory storage unit coupled to the security server . The security server is connected to facility protection systems and information systems via a network in which systems and and security server each have an interface hardware and software enabling network communication. Network represents any typical computer network such as LAN WAN or Internet in which each component in the network has an IP address. Data may be sent through the network in packets or files to components by their IP address as typical of network communication protocol. Although less preferred one or more components in system may be serially connected to communication ports on security server in which a typical serial communication protocol is used. As will be described security server receives event data from systems and logs them in the central database routes events to alarm monitoring clients and to the event transaction processor and then depending on the event data outputs action data packets requests to such systems and different from the system from which the event data is received to take specific actions automatically and in real time. The security server may send in response to event data messages to one or more output devices such as automated calls to pagers telephones or e mail or other communication systems. Output devices include the appropriate interfaces to such communication systems for such systems to operate in accordance with phone numbers or e mail addresses.

Facility protection systems include an access control system ACS intrusion detection or burglar system IDS fire system and digital video recording and surveillance systems . The access control system is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 135 822 filed Aug. 18 1998 which is incorporated herein by reference and assigned to the same assignee as the present application. The computer server described in this patent application may provide security server with central database and is further programmed as described herein to provide an integrated security system for facility protection systems and information systems . In brief the access control system includes one or more access controllers in which each access controller is coupled to one or more card readers. Each access controller may be separately connected to network for communication with security server . The card readers read data from badges and any pin number data entered at a keypad of the reader. The access controllers each make access decisions responsive to data from the card reader for controlling locking mechanisms to doors accessing areas of buildings. For example the access control system may be the ONGUARD system sold by Lenel Systems International Inc. of Rochester N.Y. However other types of access control systems may also be used capable of communication with security server .

Intrusion detection system represents a system for detecting break ins in a facility such as with sensors detecting motion window glass breakage and the like. The intrusion detection system operates such sensors in multiple zones of a facility as typical of intrusion detection systems. One or more IDS panels and alarm keypads are present in the facility capable of controlling operation of the system in specific or multiple zones. The panels each have an interface coupling the panel to the security server via network or a single interface may be provided to all or groups of panels. With the proper code entered on the alarm keypad one or more zones may be masked to avoid sensor s in such zones from triggering an alarm event in system . These codes may be an ID associated with the user in system . For example intrusion detection system may be a system such as manufactured by Digital Monitoring Products Inc. of Springfield Mo.

Fire system represents a life safety system providing fire detection used in facilities such as with sensors for detecting smoke or heat and the like. The systems may incorporate visual or audio alert and control sprinklers if present in a facility. Such systems have fire panels in the facility capable of controlling operation of system . The panels each have an interface coupling the panel to the security server via network or a single interface may be provided to all or groups of panels. For example fire system may be a system such as manufactured by Pyrotronics Inc. of Cedar Knolls N.Y.

Digital video recording and surveillance system represents surveillance system of digital video cameras connected to video servers or IP based digital video cameras located in areas of facilities. Each such IP camera may have a network interface to connect directly to network . These cameras are capable of detecting motion within their viewing area by detecting changes between two bitmap images or video frames successively taken by the camera. The cameras may be activated in response to signals commands from security server to take still pictures or full motion video of a scene to record it to video server or download images or video directly to the security server for monitoring and storage in central database .

Facility protection systems may include other systems such as an intercom system personal safety alarm systems physical asset management systems building automation system or other systems typically used for protection and management of personnel and property in facility environments. The intercom system utilizes intercoms at doors in a facility such as for example the Alphacom system manufactured by Stentofon Inc. Personal safety alarm systems represent handheld or worn portable transmitters that can transmit an alarm signal when activated by a user indicating the location transmitter user name or other identifier and the time and date. Personal safety alarm systems are manufactured for example by Viasonic Inc. Physical asset management systems provide for tracking and recording asset movement in a facility. Such systems use active or passive RF tags on assets such as business equipment which may be read by sensors in a facility to indicate location and movement of assets. Asset management systems for example may track passive RF tags such as used in the Proxtrack System manufactured by HID Inc. and IBM Inc. as described in Asset ID Programming Specification Version 1.1 published by IBM Personal Systems Group Feb. 5 1999 and Asset ID RF Signal and Protocol Specification Version 1.0 published by Atmel Corporation HID Corporation and IBM Corporation Nov. 3 1998. Active RF tags are manufactured by Automatic Identification Technology. Building automation systems are systems providing control of heating temperature air conditioning lighting or energy flow in a facility such as manufactured by Honeywell Inc. Johnson Controls Inc. or Automatic Logic Inc. The digital video management and surveillance system and asset management system may be part of the OnGuard System as described in Lenel OnGuard Technical Functional Generic Specification published by Lenel Inc. June 2000.

Each facility protection system s interface is capable of data communication with the security server over the network such that events occurring at such system are sent to the server for processing. These interfaces and their communication protocol are set forth by the manufacturer of their system to enable compatible communication with security server . For example typically the Bac Net or Echelon Protocol is used for interfacing with building automation systems. Certain components of the facility protection systems may also be able to take actions in response to commands from the security server such as the assess control system intrusion detection system fire system and digital video recording and surveillance system as will be described later in more detail.

The information systems represents typical data network systems such as Windows NT Server Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP Server or Unix Linux Server and information protection systems such as firewall system or Virtual Private Network VPN system . Servers and may be located in areas of buildings controlled by the access control system or monitored by other facility protection systems and are coupled to terminals personal computers or work stations which also may be in other areas of such buildings. Firewall system is an information system enabling outside external access such as dial in through a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN to users from external computers to access information resources such as other information systems located on network . Each information system provides user authorization through Login ID and associated passwords security token and PIN or smart card and digital certificates to enable access by users through a login screen. Other user authorization means may also be used such as biometric fingerprint voice and face data. One or more of the information systems may be present in system . Information systems are not limited to those shown in and any type of computer or network based information system could be used which requires user authorization to access to network and data resources and is capable of communication with security server such as non LDAP directory servers network switches network routers SNMP controllable devices PKI Systems or digital certificate authorities. Network operating systems other than Windows NT Server or Unix Linux Server may also be represented by information systems such as Windows 2000 Server. Other systems than firewall and VPN systems may also be used to provide external access protection before allowing access to a user authorization screen e.g. login screen for another information system such as servers or

Each of the information systems interfaces like that of the facility protection systems is capable of receiving and sending data packets records or files to and from security server via network . Each interface of systems and receives action data packets directed to the assigned IP address of systems and or a component thereof. The interface interprets and formats the commands and data of each action data packet for controller s in the system receiving the action data packet. Each controller in systems and operates in response to the interpreted commands to effect an action. For example action data packets may be directed to one of information systems access control system or intrusion detection system to cause changes in users security access to their respective system. For information systems the controller coupled to the interface may be composed of software modules that control user authorization e.g. user login and password access control list security policies or accounts or resources definitions. For access control system the interface represents a software access control driver coupled to one or more hardware access controllers as described in the earlier incorporated patent application in which such controllers make access control decisions.

The commands used by the security server in action data packets depend on the Application Programming Interface API or interface protocol for the particular one of systems or or component thereof to which such action data packet is being sent as defined by the manufacturer of the system in reference manuals for their interface. For example one or more of the information systems such as Windows NT Server have a defined API as described in Microsoft Win32 API Programmers Reference published by Microsoft Inc. For example access control system interface may be in accordance with Lenel OpenDevice API published by Lenel Systems International Inc. Interfacing with intrusion detection system may be described for example in the D6600 Communications Receiver Gateway Computer Interface Manual which is published by Radionics Inc. and which utilizes the SIA Format Protocol Digital Communications Standard for Alarm System Communications published by the Security Industry Association. Interfacing with fire system may be described for example in Cereberus Pryontronics Programmers Reference Manual published by Cereberus Pyrotronics Inc.

The security server has software for mapping actions to be taken into commands in communication protocol for the interface for each facility protection system and information system such that the interface can interpret the command and data content or fields in an action data packet for it s respective controller s . To facilitate this the security server may employ an agent software program that provides such mapping of a set of functions actions to the instruction set of a particular component in systems and .

Each interface of the information systems and facility protection systems is programmed to also collect events occurring at its respective system. Such events may be sent from the controller s of access control system and information systems into memory allocated in such systems for storage of events. The interface sends data representing one or more collected events in one or more event data packets to the security server . The event data packets include a unique System ID so that from data packets sent to the security server the originator sender of the event data packet can be identified. Each addressable part i.e. controller interface or device of the information systems and facility protection systems may have a unique System ID in system . The System ID may be a single identifier or composed of several identifiers that indicate levels of subcomponents in a system.

For information systems typical events would be the logon of a user an authorization event logoff of a user failed user attempt to logon or change in user password or access privilege of the user. For access control system typical events would be a user entry or exit through a door unauthorized attempt to enter or forced entry. For the intrusion detection system typical events would be the detection of an intrusion in a zone and for a fire system a typical event would be the detection of smoke or fire is a zone or area. For digital video recording and surveillance system a typical event would be the detection of motion within the viewing area of a specific camera. Certain events at information systems and facility protection systems indicating a security risk condition represent alarms at such system and in integrated system generally. Each of the systems and internally is programmed to react to events while also sending event data packets to the security server describing the events.

The security server receives each of the event data packets at an event transaction processor for determination of actions if any the system will take and depending on the event received sending action data packets automatically and in real time to systems and to take appropriate action. Actions may be based on occurrence of a single event or multiple events at the same or different ones of systems and . The event data packets may further be sent to one or more monitoring client systems for monitoring of events. Action data packets may also be sent to monitoring client systems for monitoring system s response to actions. An illustration of the process in system for an event data packet transmitted from the access control system to security server is shown in in which action data packets may be sent to each of the information systems to cause actions to take place in such systems to protect information property as shown in . The process in system for an event data packet transmitted from any one of information systems to security server is shown in in which as a result action data packets may be sent to facility protection systems to cause actions to take place on such systems to protect physical property by limiting or locking out a users to areas of a building as shown in with respect to the access control system . Another action which may be taken by security server is to call a preset pager number a telephone number with an automated message or e mail address with a message in response to specific event types via output devices .

In addition to events being received by the security server from facility protection systems and information systems events may automatically be generated by the security server such as based on a predefined termination date of a user s access privileges which when read by the event transaction processor causes actions to limit or remove access privileges by the user to facilities controlled by the access control system and information systems .

The information from the event data packets is also stored by the security server chronologically as a record in an event log in the central database . An event log record includes at least the time and date originator i.e. System ID of the event data packet and data content describing the event. Unique codes may be used by security server for different events from systems or . As stated earlier each event data packet is also sent by security server to one or more alarm monitoring client systems which enable real time display of events to personnel especially such events representing alarms. The security server maintains in the central database a list of the IP addresses of such client systems to which event data packets are routed. Alarm monitoring client systems represent computer workstations computer systems or other devices capable of receiving event data which can connect to security server over the network or receive messages by e mail pager or personal digital assistant from security server via output devices . Software applications operating on such alarm monitoring client system to enable display of events occurring in system may be such as used in the ONGUARD system mentioned earlier.

The system also includes an external database shown as a Human Resource HR database or a directory accessible through protocols such as LDAP as described in the above incorporated patent application in which transactions in user data are sent to the security server for storage in one or more tables of the central database . The HR database may be memory of another computer server to enable communication with security server . HR database is coupled to HR computer systems . Each time user information stored in HR database is changed add modify or delete by HR computer systems a transaction defining the change is stored on the HR database. The transaction can be read by security server and downloaded by the server to map the changed user data from the HR database to records in one or more user data tables of the central database similar to that described in the earlier incorporated patent application. Examples of tables for integration of the access control system of this incorporated application with other facility protection systems and information systems are described later below.

In response to receiving user data representing additions of a new user to system security server assigns a unique Internal ID for internal management of users and assigns security information such security access privileges in system in facility protection system s physical environment of ACS IDS and to information systems data and network environment. For example user data stored in the central database may include information regarding the type of user or employee type as researcher sales contractor or any other type that may characterize particular access privileges to areas of a building and type of information. An access privileges lookup table in memory of the central database associates user data such as type of user and or time periods shifts to one of different access privileges in the access control system . Each access privilege characterizes the areas and time of access to controlled areas of buildings. Such tables are described in the incorporated patent application as Access Level Link Table and Access Lenel Table. Similarly the same access privileges look up table or a different look up table specifies which zones if any of the IDS the user can mask. The same access privilege look up table or a different look up table in memory of the central database associates user data such as type of user department or location building city or state to one or more of the information systems the user should have access to. The access privileges in facility protection systems and and information systems may change in accordance with updated user data received in transactions for the HR database .

As shown in if such action in response to an event changes user data stored on security server in central database such change in user data may be sent to the HR database such that the HR database is maintained current. Further an administration system in representing a computer system is provided in system which can access the central database in security server to review and update information stored therein such as update user data security access privileges or generate and manage badge ID cards or action ID Credentials and also Login IDs passwords and other digital credentials such as smart cards security tokens digital certificates and biometric templates.

The central database includes multiple tables for data management of system . One such table is the User Table as shown for example below.

Each user has a record in the User Table referred to herein as a user record which in the example shown above includes the following data fields a unique Internal ID assigned by system for identifying each user LastName FirstName and MiddleName for the parts of the user s name SSN is the user s social security number or other public unique identifier for an individual Last Changed is the date and time the record was last changed Address City State and Zipcode of the user s work address Department is the department or group the user is associated with Phone is the user s work phone number Building is the building where the user works Title is the title of the user s position user Type refers to the type of user as described earlier Status may be active non active or one of different types of non active such as medical or retired and Termination Date if applicable may be used for term employees such as contractors or seasonal workers. Other information stored in the fields of the user table may be such as described in the Employee table of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 135 822 filed Aug. 18 1998 or as needed based on the institution in which system is used.

The records in the User System Security Table stores for each user their access privileges to information systems in terms of which information system the user has access to. In other words for each information system the user has access to a record exists in this table having the System ID of the information system the Internal ID of the user in system and authorization information Login ID and Password for the user to access their account on the information system. Also stored in the table is a SID which represent a security identifier having a value unique to every account for a user in a given system which reference the users for that system and their associated authorization information i.e. Login ID and Password. For example Domain Controllers for Windows NT Server assigns a unique SID for each user having an account on the system and stores on its server such as a database records linking the SID to the Login ID and Password assigned to the user. Optionally to avoid duplicating data for such an information system using SID s the Login ID and Password fields in a record of the User System Security Table of that system may be removed. In this case if the Login ID and or password of a user were needed by the security server the server by a querying command in an action data packet to the information system may obtain the Login ID and or password for a SID. If an information system does not use an SID then that field in the User System Security Table need not be used. The User Table and the User System Security Table are relationally linked by the Internal ID of the user.

When a new user is added in system such as by the addition of user record in the User Table the security server automatically determines which of the information system the user should have access to based on the lookup table described earlier which associates user data of the user record with one several or all of the information system i.e. System ID of those information system s such a user should have access to. This is useful in assuring that only users needing access to an information system are provided with such access. For example in a work environment where users are employees an employee in the Sales Department would not need access to an information system used by employees in a Research and Development R D Department and an employee in an R D Department would not need access to an information system storing sales information. Alternatively users may have access to all information systems in system and thus no use of a look up table to assign access privileges to information system is needed. Although a look up table is described any rules may be programmed to associate information in one or more fields on User Table and particular information systems .

Once the information systems are identified for the new user the security server adds a record to the User System Security Table for each of such information system having the Internal ID of the user and the System ID of the information system. The security server for each new record in this table automatically determines the Login ID and Password in accordance with the authorization protocol of the information system associated with the record stores the Login ID and Password in the record and sends a new account command in an action data packet over the network to the information system to open a new user account with that Login ID and password. For example such Login ID and or password may be based on combination of a user s first and last name from the user record in the User Table data. The new account command would also include any other information needed by the particular information system for opening an account such as name of user department and type of employee location or other information in the user record in the User Table. Usually the new account when opened is assigned default privileges by the information system to its resources such as directories files documents databases programs or network s maintained by such information system. Optionally an information system may use the information about the user provided by the security server to assign access privileges in terms of which resources such user may access or time of day or specific terminals or computers access is to be made available. Such assigned privileges by the information system is stored in each respective information system and can be accessed and modified by the security server via a query command in an action data packet with using SIDs or Login ID. If the Login ID already exists for the information system when a new account command is received the information system will not generate an account for the user and will send a message to the security server informing that the Login ID is in use. In such a case the security server automatically based on the rules for that information system generates a new Login ID such as for example replacing or adding more letters or numbers to the previously determined Login ID. The new Login ID is then stored in the record in the record for the information system and user in the User System Security Table and a new account command is resent in an action data packet to the information system to open a new user account with the password and new Login ID. Alternatively the security server could defer to an information system to provide the user authorization information in which the new account command in an action data packet would have information about the user from the user record and the information system would return to the security server the user authorization information SID or Login ID and Password for storage in a record in the User System Security Table.

In response to opening a new account the information system returns an SID and the security server stores the SID in the record for the information system System ID and user Internal ID in the User System Security Table. The return of an SID thus represents a confirmation message that the new account is successfully opened. If the information system does not use SID s a confirmation message is also returned to the security server indicating the new account is successfully opened having the Login ID of the user. The above is repeated for each information system the new user will have access to.

If a user record in the User Table is changed added deleted or updated and such changes may effect security access to information systems especially if the user record is deleted or fields of the user record associated with access privileges such as status or employee type have changed. Changes in user records effecting security access are downloaded distributed to information systems. For example if a user record were deleted then all records for the user in the User System Security Table will be deleted or have their Status fields changed to inactive and the security server automatically sends a disable Login or account command in an action data packet to the System ID of information system of the effected records. Further for example if in a user record fields associated with access privileges were changed the security server using the look up table providing access privilege association between user table fields and information systems adds a new record in the User System Security Table for each new information system to which the user has access such as described earlier in opening a new user account and changes the Status field to inactive for records in the User System Security Table for the user for any information system to which access privileges are no longer provided such as described earlier in disabling a user s Login. Sometimes changes in the User Table records do not effect security access but represent information stored for the user s account in the information system such as address or phone number which may be downloaded to an information system in an action data packet with the SID or Login ID of the user and an account update command with the updated information.

For each information system in system the System Security Table has a record including fields System ID of the information system System Name of the information system of that System ID Server Location having as text or codes defining the particular facility where the information system s server is located and Locations having text or codes defining the site building rooms or areas of a facility where use of the information system is authorized such as where terminals or computers associated with the information system are located. This is useful for associating the physical environment protected by facility protections systems with each information system.

The user s authorization information for the information systems typically has user authorization information of a Login ID and Password needed to enable to the user to access the user s account on the system such as described above. If other or additional digital ID Credentials are needed for a particular information system such may be stored in additional field s in the record for the user to the information system in the User System Security Table or such fields may store the location address or filename where such ID Credentials may be found in memory e.g. central database of the security server and stored therein by a central system administration client . Such a client would have components or other means for obtaining such ID Credentials information such as digital certificates fingerprint data or other biometric information.

An information system when first added to the system and linked to the security server may have user accounts already established. If a user already has an account for a particular information system when that information system is first added to system then the SID for the user is mapped to the user s Internal ID for storage in a record the User System Security Table of the central database having the System ID of the information system. Similarly other digital ID Credentials may be mapped such as Login ID and Passwords.

Additional tables in the central database store the users badges or other user authenticity ID credential to gain entry exit to areas of facilities controlled by the access control system . These table s including a Badge Table is described in the earlier incorporated patent application.

Other tables may also be provided in the central database depending on the facility protection systems in system . For example each user having a personal safety device has a record in a Transmitter Table including their Internal ID and frequency code and or identifier of their personal transmitter. For example each of the assets being managed has a record in an Asset Table including their unique Asset ID and information describing the asset. Each user possessing a managed asset would have a record in an Asset Link Table which includes the Internal ID of the user and the Asset ID s of an Asset Group the user may possess. The Asset Group refers to a list of Assets i.e. Asset IDs which may be grouped together.

The intrusion detection system may store a list of Internal IDs of users as codes enabling masking of zone at its control panels. The access privileges look up table in the central database described earlier can include information as to whether a user has masking access privilege and the extent of the zones to which the privilege in system extends. At the same time access to information systems is being established security server may automatically download new or changed security information to the access controllers of the access control system in accordance with the security privileges of the user such that a badge or other personal credentials such as a biometric template may be used by the user to enter certain areas of the building at certain times as described in the earlier incorporated patent application. Further the security server may automatically download new or changed security information to the intrusion detection system any zones the user will have the ability to mask from detection from the system in accordance with the security privileges of the user. The security server can further download to information systems new or changes in security data for each user based on information stored relevant to such security in the central database as described earlier. Thus system enables central control of access privileges to all systems and . The distribution download of security information in system is described in more detail below.

Referring to a flow chart for the distribution of security information in system in response to transactions read from a transaction table in the HR database is shown. In these figures and FIGS. A B and A C IPS or IS refers to one of information systems . The security server first reads a transaction from the list queued in the transaction table specifying the update add modify or delete in the user data maintained in the HR database step and maps the updated user data into records of one or more of the tables of the central database step . The user data provides information about a user such as stored in the User Table. The download and mapping of user data from the HR database to the central database of steps and may be similar to that described in detail in the earlier incorporated patent application. Such mapping includes assigning the security information security access privileges for access control system and to information systems by building or updating records in the User System Security Table for information system the user should have access to if either a new user is added or the user data is modified such that the security information for the user is affected. For example changing the user type may change their access privileges. The security server checks if the transaction read was mapped to the central database step . If so the HR database is updated by removing the transaction from its transaction table step otherwise an error in either the central database or in the user data of the transaction has occurred and a copy of the transaction is stored in an error log of the central database for review by administrator system step .

Next at step changes in a user s security information stored in the central database affecting access privileges are transmitted to the access control system intrusion detection system and information systems . To send changes in security information for a user an action data packet is sent to each affected system to effect the user s account on the information system. The action data packet sent to network and information system uses a command appropriate for the interface of system with the Login ID or SID in accordance with the user s Internal ID in the User System Security Table. If no Login ID is present on the information system one is generated as described earlier with a default password. The action data packet transmitted to the access control system uses a command appropriate for the interface of the access control system with the Internal ID of the user. The transmission of the information in the action data packet for the access control system to add modify or delete security information may be similar to that described in the earlier incorporated patent application.

The interface for each information system access control system and intrusion detection system receives formats and sends the security information to controllers of such systems to update the security information for the system accordingly step . In the case of information system such command may for example direct the system to add a new user account delete a user account remove access privilege or block Login for the Login ID or SID of the user. As stated earlier if a new user is being added the command may be to add new user account which include a security server generated Login ID and password or the information system will return to the security server SID or the Login ID and password assigned for that system for association with the User System Security Table. In the case of the access control system the action data packet may be addressed by the security server to the access controller s affected having a command for the Internal ID of the user. Further for the intrusion detection system the controllers control panels of the system may be updated with respect to the Internal ID to mask zones monitored by the system. The particular command and content of fields of the data structure of the action data packet depends on the security information change for the user in the central database . The interface of the access control system intrusion detection system and information system receive messages from the respective controllers indicating whether the security information was received and accepted step and transmits a response message from their respective controllers to the security server indicating such step . For each access control system intrusion detection system and network and information system if the security server receives a message indicating that the security information was accepted by the interface step the server stores in an import log of the central database an entry indicating that the download of security information was successful step . If the security information was not accepted the security server stores in a failed commands log of the central database a copy of the information of the action data packet sent to the system for review by personnel at administration system step .

Referring to the process of an event occurring at the access control system is shown. For example events may be a badge used at a card reader to access an area or a forced door open to access an area. Starting at step the event is first read collected by the software interface from memory of the access controller of system . The software interface sends routes the event information in an event data packet to the security server which logs the event data packet as an event transaction in the central database and routes the event transaction to alarm monitoring clients and event transaction processor step . If the event transaction did not get logged in the central database step an error has occurred and a copy of the event transaction is stored in a temporary file in the central database until the central database is available to log the event transaction step . If the event transaction did not get routed to alarm monitoring clients step an error is stored in the error log of the central database with a copy of the event transaction step . Each client returns a message to the security server indicating the event transaction was received. The security server determines that an event transaction was not routed to a client when no such message is returned from a client. If the event transaction did not get routed to the event transaction processor step an error is stored in the error log of the central database with a copy of the event transaction step . The security server knows when an event was routed to the event transaction processor when it received an ACK acknowledge message from the processor. The event transaction processor determines if any actions are needed at the information systems in response to the event transaction from the access control system step . If so the event transaction processor formats action data packets to direct information systems to take appropriate actions step otherwise the event transaction is discarded by the event transaction processor step . The operation of the event transaction processor at steps and are described in more detail in connection with . Each of the interfaces of the information systems receiving an action data packet directs the controller of the information system to operate in accordance with the command and data of the action data packet and sends a message back to the security server indicating whether the action data packet was accepted. The security server checks the received message for each information system interface to determine if the action data packet was accepted step . If so the security server updates a transaction log in the central database with a success status step otherwise a copy of the sent action data packet is stored in the central database for review by personnel at administrator system step . Similarly an event from any facility protection system may be processed in the same manner as described from access control system and cause actions at other facility protection systems and or information systems.

The actions taken by the information systems to protect networks and data resources sometimes needs to be made aware to HR personnel such that they are aware of any changes in the status of the users and access privileges in the information system or if needed take appropriate corrective action. For example a badge used by a user to access areas controlled by the access control system may have expired causing an event transaction which sends action data packets to information systems to block the user s Login ID. The security server can check a list of such actions requiring HR notification stored in central database to determine if the action affects HR step . If so the business rules for the affected data are looked up such as in a table of the central database step and then the security server check if it needs to be applied step . Business rules represent when the action taken requires that data stored in the HR system s database be changed. If no business rules are found or if the business rules found require only that notification be provided the no branch from step is taken to step to send an update transaction to the HR system to notify personnel in HR such as in a log. If the business rules need to be applied at step the business rules are applied for the HR system to send an update transaction that both provides notification and updates the appropriate record in the HR database for the user affected at step . The HR database sends a message to the security server if the HR database was successfully updated. If so the transaction is logged in the transaction log of the central database step otherwise an error is added to the error log of the central database with a copy of the update transaction sent step .

Referring to the process of an event occurring at one of the information systems is shown. For example an event may be a network intrusion detection such as by Windows NT Server at a terminal located within a particular building. Starting at step the event is first read by the software interface from memory of the information system storing the event. The interface sends routes the event information in an event data packet to the security server which logs the event data packet as an event transaction in the central database and routes the event transaction to alarm monitoring clients and event transaction processor step . If the event transaction was not logged in the central database step an error has occurred and a copy of the event transaction is stored in a temporary file in the central database until the central database is available to log the transaction step . If the event transaction was not routed to any alarm monitoring clients step an error is stored in the error log of the central database with a copy of the event transaction step . If the event transaction did not get routed to the global event transaction processor step an error is stored in the error log of the central database with a copy of the event transaction step . The event transaction processor determines if any actions are needed at the access control system step . If so the event transaction processor formats action data packets to direct the access control systems to take appropriate actions step otherwise the event transaction is discarded by the event transaction processor step . The operation of the global event transaction processor at step and are described later in more detail in connection with . The software interface of the access control system receives the action data packet to direct the access controller of the access control system to operate according to the command and data of the action data packet and sends a message back to the security server indicating whether the action data packet was accepted. The security server checks the received message to determine if the action data packet was accepted step . If so the security server updates a transaction log in the central database with a success status step otherwise a copy of the sent action data packet is stored in the central database for review by administrator system step . If actions local to the information system are also needed in addition to sending an event to the security server the information system may operate to block access for a Login ID as typical network security systems provide when possible intrusion is detected for a Login ID. Reference at steps to actions by access control system are exemplary any of the facility protection systems or other information systems may be directed to take an action.

Internally the security server identifies each user by their Internal ID. When sending action data packets to network and information system the security server used the Login ID or SID associated with the Internal ID in the User System Security Table. The access control system may use the Badge ID rather than the Internal ID to identify different badges which may be provided in another table linked to the User Table by the Internal ID. If so when sending action data packets to access control system the security server uses the User Table to associate the Internal ID with the Badge ID assigned to the user to identify the user to the access control system.

Referring to as with actions taken by the information systems to protect network and data resources actions affecting users access to areas of building sometimes need to be made aware to HR personnel such that appropriate corrective action may be taken. To determine whether the access control system action affects the HR system the security server checks a list of such actions requiring HR notification stored in central database to determine whether the user data stored in the HR database is affected i.e. changed by the action step . If so the business rules for the affected data are looked up such as in a table of the central database step and then the security server check if it needs to be applied step . If no business rules are found or if the business rules found require only that notification be provided the no branch from step is taken to step to send an update transaction to the HR system to notify personnel in HR such as in a log. If the business rules need to be applied at step the business rules are applied for the HR system to send an update transaction that both provides notification and updates the appropriate record in the HR database for the user affected at step . For example an action may be to deactivate the badge of a user at the access control system . In this case a record for the HR system for the user would then be updated indicating the badge was deactivated. In this manner the HR records will be maintained current for users. The HR database sends a message to the security server if the HR database was successfully updated step . If so the transaction is logged in the transaction log of the central database step otherwise an error is added to the error log of the central database with a copy of the update transaction sent step .

Referring to a flow chart showing the process and programming of the event transaction processor of security server is shown. At step an event data packet is received from one of the information systems and facility protection systems having information for an event transaction in system . The originator s System ID time and date of the event location of the event and an event code Internal ID and or a Login ID or SID if the event relates to a particular user is read from the event transaction. The date and time of the event may be in data fields of a received event data packet or the date and time the event data packet was received by the security server in accordance with the time and date of the clock of security server . Based on the event code and originator of the event security server searches for a matching entry in a record of a Rules Table matching the event code and originator s System ID. Each entry has data with any actions to be taken by system . If no record is found or no actions are indicated the event transaction is discarded step and the process ends step . If one or more actions are found for that entry the security server locates such actions step in the Rules Table and for each recipient of the action an action data packet is prepared steps . The Rules Table may include the command and data structure for fields needed for the particular software interface of the recipient of the action data packet. The action data packets are then sent to the recipient systems step and logged in central database step and the process ends at step . The data structure for locating and applying rules of the Rules Table is exemplary. Other data structures may be used to check if a rule for an event transaction exists and the actions needed in system . For example a structure of if then conditions may be used based on the sender System ID the system type to or of the sender System ID an event code for the transaction which occurred and the target System ID s to be affected in response to the event. The particular actions at systems in response to an events at another system depends on the specific event and as such the event transaction processor may be programmed accordingly to provide the desired response which promotes security in the overall system .

Examples of event and corresponding actions in system follow. Access control system event an access control system deactivating a badge of a user action block Login ID for the user at information systems . Access control system event access control system detects door forced open in an area action disable all terminals PCs and workstations protected by information systems in area where door was forced open. Fire system event fire smoke in a zone action backup data for all information systems in area associated with a zone or switch control to alternate network servers which may be located in a facility. Information system event network intrusion detection of unauthorized access at a terminal in an area action access control system locks door s in area to block exit by intruder. Information system event information system detects unauthorized login attempt after business hours action create alarm in access control system activate badge usage trace in access control system at every card reader in the area where the unauthorized login attempt occurred close perimeter doors to the area activate video camera of digital video system in the area and start recording and surveillance. The digital video camera can record events in an area where an event indicating a security risk is detected such that undisputable evidence of the event and persons involved may be obtained. Intrusion detection event movement sensed in a zone of a building by intrusion detection system action access control system lock door s in area associated with the zone to block exit by possible intruder and secures disables terminals or computer to any information systems in the building area associated with the zone. Fire event detection of fire smoke in zone of the buildings from a fire system action information control systems having a server location in the area associated with the zone as stored in the security system table records immediately backups data from its servers to another location in an area of the building or another building to minimize risk of damage. Digital video event digital video system indicates movement in a scene when no users have entered the area access control system lock door s in area where video is taken to block exit. Information system event user logs into a terminal action capture digital video or image by digital video recording and surveillance system if camera in area where terminal is located. Asset management event physical asset detected as moved through a door by asset management system and Asset ID of the asset is not associated with Internal ID of User s badge used at reader to open door action activate digital video camera in area where asset is located to record scene and access control system lock doors in area to block exit by an unauthorized person.

Thus system integrates security to the physical environment provided by the access control system and also building protection systems with security to network and data environment provided by information systems such that actions to events occur automatically and in real time. The zones or area used by the facility protection systems are associated by the event transaction processor with one or more areas controlled by computers or terminals associated with information systems using the location field in the record in the security system table for the information system such that actions taken can be specific to the area of possible security risk. These events and actions are exemplary other events typical of information systems and facility protection systems may cause different actions at other information systems or facility protection systems depending on the nature of the event.

Although the above describes the operation of the event transaction processor to a single event the event transaction processor may check whether the occurrence of multiple events requires action s in system . This may be achieved logging each event read at step in a multiple event transaction log in memory of the central database . Preferably only events which have event codes and System ID which match those stored on a look up table in the central database of possible events which could be combined with other event s to require action in system . The event transaction processor operates similar to steps each time an event is added to the multiple event transaction log so as to locate rule s for any combination of events in the multiple events transaction log to determine if action is needed and to locate prepare and send action data packets to effect such actions associated with each of the applicable rules. The action s are logged in the central database. The check for multiple events is done by the event transaction processor in parallel with a check for single event or may be done by another one of event transaction processor in the security server .

The system may optionally enhance security by maintaining user accounts at one or more information systems in a disabled Login state. When an event is received by the event transaction processor from the access control system that a user has entered a location such as a facility site area building a room e.g. by use of badge at a reader of the access control system the event transaction processor applies a rule that if the location matches one or more authorized locations for use of the information system as stored in a record in the System Security Table for the information system the user s Login for the information system is enabled. Similarly when the event transaction processor receives an event that the same user has exited the location the user s Login for the information system is again disabled. Security may be further enhanced by requiring two events to occur at the event transaction processor entry into an authorized location by the access control system and detection at a motion sensor of the IDS in the area where the terminal or computer for the information system is located in that area. An additional third event or instead of the IDS event may also be used if a digital video camera of the digital video recording and surveillance system were located in such area where the information system terminal was located. Thus access in the physical environment is required for access to the network and data environment of an information system.

From the foregoing description it will be apparent that there has been provided a system and method for integrating security and access for facilities and information systems. Variations and modifications in the herein described system and method in accordance with the invention will undoubtedly suggest themselves to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the foregoing description should be taken as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

