---

title: Systems and methods for displaying personalized content
abstract: When a user successfully authenticates into a website associated with an institution system, a cookie may be created and set on the web browser, and cookie information and additional information such as the associated internet protocol (IP) address or network interface card (NIC) identifier may be stored at the institution system. Later, when the user accesses the website again, the website may use the cookie, the cookie information, and additional information such as the stored IP address or NIC identifier to identify the user. After the user is identified, one or more pages of content may be personalized to the user, and provided to the user via the user's computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08667563&OS=08667563&RS=08667563
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08667563
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071005
---
This application is related by subject matter to that disclosed in the following commonly assigned applications the entirety of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 867 934 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 867 962 each filed on Oct. 5 2007 and each entitled Systems And Methods For Displaying Personalized Content. 

The Internet is a mostly anonymous channel. Hypertext transfer protocol HTTP cookies referred to herein as cookies are small text files on a user s computer which may be used by web servers to differentiate users and to maintain data related to the user during navigation possibly across multiple visits.

A cookie may be used to identify a user of an individual website without the user logging on to the website with their credentials or otherwise authenticating their identity. However cookies are not secure may be stolen and do not always accurately identify users. Therefore a website may not offer personalized information to a user based on the cookie on the user s computer because of the risk that the user identified by the cookie is not the user who is actually visiting the website.

In an implementation when a user successfully authenticates into a website associated with an institution system a cookie may be created and set on the web browser and cookie information and additional information such as the associated internet protocol IP address or network interface card NIC identifier may be stored at the institution system. Later when the user accesses the website again the website may use the cookie the cookie information and additional information such as the stored IP address or NIC identifier to identify the user. After the user is identified one or more pages of content may be personalized to the user and provided to the user via the user s computing device.

In another implementation a user may be identified with a certain level of confidence depending on various factors such as the strength of the match of the IP address of the user computing device that is being used to access the website and the IP address or one of the IP addresses that is stored as additional information. With certain types of content that are to be personalized and delivered to a user the institution may determine that an exact match of the IP addresses may not have to occur.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In an implementation the user interface module may receive content from the content generator and format one or more pages of content as a unified graphical presentation that may be provided to the user computing device . The page s of content may be provided to the user computing device via a website associated with the institution system . When the user accesses the website they may be presented with information pertaining to the institution or products and services of the institution for example via the page s of content . A web browser may be used for connection between the user computing device and the website . As described further herein the content that may be delivered to the user computing device may be personalized to the user .

The institution system may include a cookie generator in an implementation that generates a cookie . As is known a cookie is a parcel of text chosen and sent by a web server to a web browser and may be sent back unchanged by the web browser each time it accesses that server. Any known techniques may be used to generate and set a cookie. Here the cookie may be considered reliable because it is set after the user has properly and fully authenticated to the institution system via the website . The cookie may be a unique value that corresponds to the user who authenticated themselves to the website . The cookie may be persistent as it may not expire and may live beyond when the web browser is closed.

In an implementation the cookie may be stored on the web browser of the user computing device . Corresponding information pertaining to the cookie referred to herein as cookie information may be stored on the institution system in an access table or other storage for example. The cookie information may include data based on the cookie as well as information pertaining to the user who has been authenticated.

The cookie and the cookie information may be used in conjunction with additional information stored in the access table or other storage to identify the user . After the cookie is stored on the web browser and the cookie information and the additional information are set and stored in the access table the user may be identified when they subsequently access the website without authenticating themselves to the website by logging in. Although the implementations described herein may refer to storing the cookie information and the additional information in the access table this is not intended to be limiting as the cookie information and the additional information may be stored in any storage associated with the institution system .

The additional information may be data that may be used in identification of the user or the user computing device such as the IP address of the user computing device or the NIC identifier of the user computing device . An IP address is a unique address that certain electronic devices use to identify and communicate with each other on a computer network utilizing the internet protocol standard in simpler terms a computer address. A NIC is a piece of computer hardware designed to allow computers to communicate over a computer network. Every NIC has a unique 48 bit serial number identifier that is stored in memory carried on the card. The additional information may be collected and stored in the access table at the time the user initially authenticates to the website .

More particularly in an implementation when a user successfully authenticates into a website using any known authentication technique a cookie may be created and set on the web browser and cookie information and additional information such as the associated IP address or NIC identifier may be stored at the institution system . Later when the user accesses the website again the website may use the cookie the cookie information and additional information such as the stored IP address or NIC identifier to identify the user . After the user has been identified one or more pages of content may be personalized to the user with a level of confidence and provided to the user via the user computing device .

Personalization may include presentation of the page s of content and or functionality of the page s of content . For example if the website is directed to loans or other financial services personalization may be directed to an auto loan and may provide general information on auto loans specific information on particular auto loans or information about a pre approved auto loan directed to the user. It is contemplated that some of the personalized content that is displayed may be selectable by a user for example by clicking on the displayed content or entering information into a data entry box associated with the displayed content. In some implementations if the user selects such personalized content they may have to authenticate to the website or otherwise log in or provide their credentials to the website. Personalization is not limited to auto loans and may be directed to any type of data information product service advertisement etc.

As noted above the institution system may include storage such as an access table that comprises the cookie information and the additional information . In an implementation the additional information may comprise one or more IP addresses that the user computing device has previously used to access the website . The additional information may have a limit such as a time limit as to how long it will retain a previously used IP address. Additionally or alternatively a quantity limit may be used that is directed to the number of previous IP addresses that may be stored in the additional information .

In an implementation the user may be identified with a certain level of confidence depending on various factors such as the strength of the match of the IP address of the user computing device that is being used to access the website and the IP address or one of the IP addresses that is stored as additional information . With certain types of content that is to be personalized and delivered to a user the institution may determine that an exact match of the IP addresses may not have to occur. This may be implemented given that IP addresses are commonly dynamic although typically dynamic within a given range of IP addresses.

A confidence level generator may used to determine a confidence level of an identification of the user based on the match of the IP address in an implementation. Depending on an IP address match there may be varying levels of certainty about the user s identity.

As is known IP addresses may be 32 bits wide in the IP version 4 standard or 128 bits wide in the IP version 6 standard for example and may be assigned to computers on a network. Often IP addresses are assigned by a remote server that is acting as a dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP server. IP addresses assigned using DHCP may change depending on the addresses available in the set. Thus the user computing device may get an IP address in a range of addresses each time the user logs in to the network to access the website . The IP address used by the user computing device may not be the same each time but may be in the range of addresses.

For example the IP address may always be in the range of 161.151.72.01 to 161.151.72.99. So in an implementation an exact match of the IP address may result in a very high confidence level e.g. 100 whereas a close match e.g. the first 8 numbers may result in a high confidence level though not as high as an exact match e.g. 90 . Based on the confidence level varying levels of personalized information may be displayed. For example for a very high confidence level the user s name may be used and the user may be invited to participate in some personalized offer e.g. Hi Mr. Jones you re pre approved for an auto loan. Click here. . For a lower confidence level however the personalized content may be more general e.g. Hi here is some information pertaining to auto loans . And for a confidence level below a certain threshold no content may be personalized in an implementation.

Thus an otherwise anonymous visit may be more personalized without compromising personal information about the user and without adding measureable risk to the institution system . In an implementation the page s of content that may be personalized to the user may be directed to personalized advertising.

The institution system may comprise one or more computing devices . The user computing device may allow the user to interact with the computing device s . The computing device s may have one or more processors storage e.g. storage devices memory etc. and software modules . The computing device s including its processor s storage and software modules may be used in the performance of the techniques and operations described herein. Information associated with the user the cookies the IP addresses the NIC identifiers or any of the processing performed by the institution system may be stored in storage or other storage for example.

Example software modules may include modules for receiving and processing information from the user computing device storing cookies and additional information in storage or the access table retrieving cookies and other information from storage or the access table and comparing information received from the user computing device with information in storage or the access table described further herein. While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules more fewer or other modules may likewise perform the functionality. The functionality may be distributed among more than one module. An example computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to .

At operation a cookie may be stored on the user computing device on the web browser for example and cookie information comprising information pertaining to the cookie and the authenticated user e.g. name address age gender marital status income products previously purchased etc. may be stored on the institution system. Additional information about the user computing device may also be collected by the institution system and stored on the institution system at operation . This additional information may be the IP address or the NIC identifier for example. The user may end the session with the website by closing the web browser for example at operation .

At some point in the future at operation the user may access the website again but may not log on or otherwise authenticate. At operation the cookie the cookie information and the additional information may be retrieved and checked to identify the user and access the previously stored user information. Personalized content may then be generated and delivered to the user via the user computing device based on the user information and in some implementations a level of confidence in the identity of the user at operation .

At operation it may be determined if a cookie is stored on the user computing device such as on the web browser. If so then the cookie may be compared to cookie information stored in an access table or other storage maintained by the institution system at operation . This may identify an entry or other data in the access table that pertains to the user. In an implementation the IP address of the user computing device that the user has used to access the website may be stored in the access table in an entry associated with the cookie information and thus the user at operation .

If a cookie is not stored on the web browser as determined at operation then the user identifier provided during authentication for example may be compared to information in the access table at operation . It may be determined at operation whether there is cookie information stored in the access table that corresponds to the user. If so the cookie determined from the cookie information is stored on the user computing device at the web browser for example at operation and processing continues at operation . If the user does not have cookie information already stored in the access table as determined at operation a cookie may be generated and cookie information may be stored in the access table at operation . The cookie information may pertain to the cookie and the user. Processing continues at operation .

In instead of using the IP address as additional information to store with the cookie information in the access table the NIC identifier may be used. Thus after operation in which the cookie may be matched to cookie information stored in the access table the NIC identifier of the user computing device may be stored in the access table in an entry associated with the cookie information at operation .

If a cookie is stored on the web browser as determined at operation the cookie may be compared to cookie information stored in an access table or other storage maintained by the institution system at operation in an implementation. This may identify an entry or other data in the access table that pertains to the user.

In an implementation the additional information such as the IP address or multiple IP addresses or NIC identifier that had been previously stored may be retrieved from the access table from the entry corresponding to the cookie at operation . The retrieved additional information may be compared to the additional information e.g. the IP address the NIC identifier on the user s computing device at operation . If there is a match in an implementation personalized content in accordance with the level of confidence may be generated and provided to the user via the user computing device via the website at operation .

However if there is no match then at operation it may be determined if there is a close enough match between the additional information that was retrieved and the additional information on the user s computing device such that a confidence level of the identity of the user based on the strength of the match is greater than a predetermined minimum threshold. If the match is close enough such that the confidence level is above the predetermined minimum threshold pertaining to the level of confidence in the identity of the user then personalized content may be generated and provided as in operation . If there is no match that is close enough the confidence level may be less than the minimum threshold and no personalized content may be generated or provided to the user at operation .

Confidence level may be related to how many of the leading numbers of the IP addresses match. In an implementation the minimum threshold for a match to be considered high enough for personalization may be the first six numbers of the IP addresses. So if at least the first six numbers of the IP addresses match then the confidence level may be considered high enough to personalize the content. This implementation is not intended to be limiting and the minimum threshold may be based on other factors or other amounts of IP address match.

The amount of personalization may be based on how close the IP addresses match in an implementation. If the IP addresses exactly match then the content may be highly personalized. However for example if only the first six numbers of the IP addresses match then the content may be personalized but may be less specifically personalized to the user than if the IP addresses exactly match. Additionally for example if only the first six numbers of the IP addresses match then the content may be personalized less than if more than the first six numbers of the IP addresses match though the all the numbers of the IP addresses do not exactly match.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to personal computers PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include PCs network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

