---

title: Systems and methods for recognition of individuals using multiple biometric searches
abstract: The search results of a first iteration of a biometric search are used to form a probe for subsequent iterations searches in a biometric database. his enables the search methodology to “drill down” into the database to find matching biometric templates. In addition, the results of a search using a template of first biometric type are used to limit the search applied using a template of a second biometric type to improve the effectiveness of a one to many search for matching data in a biometric database. These search methods are used in various combinations with different types of biometric templates and demographic information of an individual who is subject of the one to many search.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07962467&OS=07962467&RS=07962467
owner: L-1 Secure Credentialing, Inc.
number: 07962467
owner_city: Billerica
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071002
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 686 005 filed Oct. 14 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 277 891 which claims priority to the following U.S. Provisional patent applications 

This application also is related to the following U.S. provisional and non provisional patent applications 

Each of the above U.S. Patent documents is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. Aspects of the disclosure are related to U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 09 747 735 filed Dec. 22 2000 now Pat. No. 6 923 378 09 602 313 filed Jun. 23 2000 now Pat. No. 6 752 432 and 10 094 593 filed Mar. 6 2002 Publication No. 2002 0170966 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 358 321 filed Feb. 19 2002 as well as U.S. Pat. No. 6 066 594. Each of the above U.S. Patent documents is herein incorporated by reference.

Embodiments of the invention generally relate to devices systems and methods for data processes. More particularly embodiments of the invention relates to systems and methods for improving the searching accuracy use and management of databases containing biometric information relating to individuals.

Identity theft and other related fraudulent identification activity has the potential to become a major problem to the economy safety and stability of the United States. Identity theft refers to one individual fraudulently assuming the identity of another and may include activities such as opening credit cards in the name of another obtaining loans obtaining identification documents e.g. drivers licenses passports obtaining entitlement benefits cards e.g. Social Security Cards welfare cards etc. and the like. Often these activities are performed without the consent or knowledge of the victim. Other fraudulent identification activity can also be problematic. An individual may for example use either his or her real identity to obtain a document such as an identification card but may further obtain additional identification cards using one or more identification credentials that belong to another and or one or more fictitious identification credentials.

For example to obtain an identification document such as a drivers license a given individual may attempt to obtain multiple drivers licenses under different identities may attempt to obtain a drivers license using false e.g. made up identification information or may attempt to assume the identity of another to obtain a drivers license in that individual s name. In addition individuals may alter legitimate identification documents to contain fraudulent information and may create wholly false identification documents that purport to be genuine documents.

It is extremely time consuming and expensive to apprehend and prosecute those responsible for identity theft and identity fraud. Thus to help reduce identity theft and identity fraud it may be advisable for issuers of identity bearing documents to take affirmative preventative steps at the time of issuance of the identity documents. Because of the large number of documents that are issued every day and the large history of already issued documents however it is difficult for individual employees of the issuers to conduct effective searches at the time such documents are issued or re issued . In addition the complexity and amount of the information stored often precludes manual searching at least as a starting point.

For example many government and business organizations such as motor vehicle registries store large databases of information about individuals. A motor vehicle registry database record may include information such as an operator s name address birth date height weight and the like. Some motor vehicle registry databases also include images of the operator such as a facial image and or a fingerprint image. Unless the database is fairly small it is nearly impossible for it to be searched manually.

In some databases part or all of the database record is digitally encoded which helps to make it possible to perform automated searches on the database. The databases themselves however can still be so large that automated searching is time consuming and error prone. For example some states do not delete old images taken of a given individual. Each database record might be associated with a plurality of images. Thus a database that contains records for 10 million individuals could in fact contain 50 100 million images. If a given motor vehicle registry uses both facial and fingerprint images the total number of images may be doubled still.

One promising search technique that can be used to perform automated searching of information and which may help to reduce identity theft and identity fraud is the use of biometric authentication and or identification systems. Biometrics is a science that refers to technologies that can be used to measure and analyze physiological characteristics such as eye retinas and irises facial patterns hand geometry and fingerprints. Some biometrics technologies involve measurement and analysis of behavioral characteristics such as voice patterns signatures and typing patterns. Because biometrics especially physiological based technologies measures qualities that an individual usually cannot change it can be especially effective for authentication and identification purposes.

Commercial manufacturers such as Identix Corp of Minnetonka Minn. manufacture biometric recognition systems that can be adapted to be capable of comparing two images. For example the IDENTIX FACE IT product may be used to compare two facial images to determine whether the two images belong to the same person. Other commercial products are available that can compare two fingerprint images and determine whether the two images belong to the same person. For example U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 072 894 6 111 517 6 185 316 5 224 173 5 450 504 and 5 991 429 further describe various types of biometrics systems including facial recognition systems and fingerprint recognition systems and these patents are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

One difficulty in adapting commercial biometric systems to databases such as motor vehicle databases is the very large number of images that may be stored in the database. Some types of biometrics technologies can produce high numbers of false positives falsely identifying a match between a first image and one or more other images when the database size is very large. High numbers of false positives are sometimes seen with large databases of facial images that are used with facial recognition systems.

Another potential problem with searching large databases of biometric images can be the processing delays that can accompany so called one to many searches comparing a probe image with an unidentified image such as a face or finger image presented for authentication to a large database of previously enrolled known images. In addition the many part of one to many can vary depending on the application and or the biometric being used. In some types of applications such as surveillance terrorist watch lists authentication for admission to a facility the many can be as few as a few hundred individuals whereas for other applications e.g. issuance of security documents such as passports drivers licenses etc. the many can be many millions of images.

Further some types of biometric technologies such as facial recognition have a few key differences from other types of biometric technologies such as fingerprint technologies. For example one difference between face recognition systems and fingerprint recognition systems can be cost. At the present time for one to many type searching in identification document environments where many at least means a million or more records facial recognition systems are far less costly than fingerprint recognition systems. The more affordable fingerprint recognition systems at the present time generally include those adapted for one to few type searching where few at least means fewer than a million records and includes for example systems adapted for use with tens of thousands of records .

Another difference between facial recognition systems and fingerprint recognition and other systems such as iris and retina identification systems voice recognition systems etc. systems can be the error rates. In an exemplary biometric identification system a given image referred to as the probe image is compared to one or more stored image to generate a candidate list of possible matches ordered by a match score. Like some types of automated fingerprint searches at least some types of automated searches of facial images generate a candidate list of possible matches ordered by a match score. The score is a measure of the level of confidence that the probe facial image and a target image from the candidate list are portraits of the same person. With facial recognition systems however separating the true matches from the false matches can be much more difficult than with fingerprinting. Camera angles angles at which the subject s head and or eyes are turned shadows lighting hats glasses beards jewelry etc. each have the potential to affect facial recognition results for at least some types of facial recognition systems. Thus manual review of facial recognition results can be necessary.

Although face recognition systems can generate a relatively high percentage of matches in the candidate lists with some facial recognition systems the match percentage can be 90 face recognition systems can also generate a very high number of false match results. Using a match threshold to define what constitutes a match may be less effective with face recognition than with other biometrics technologies e.g. fingerprint recognition because of the very high False Match Rates. Unless investigators are willing to manually verify matches in a face recognition candidate list or a better technique is developed to differentiate between matches and non matches face recognition is likely to remain less effective than fingerprinting.

One measure of the accuracy of a given biometric systems is known as the Receiver Operating Curve ROC . An ROC curve is a plot of a given systems False Match Rate FMR distribution against its False Non Match Rate FNMR distribution. Thus ROC graphs for a given biometrics system show the relationship between the system s false match rate a measure of the likelihood that the system will incorrectly match a subject with another non matching subject and the false non match rate a measure of the likelihood that the system will fail to match a subject with another matching subject. 

In an office such as a Department of Motor Vehicles DMV office that utilizes one to many biometrics searching the result of a false match for an applicant can be that the system identifies the person as matching the identity of another different enrollee. The result of a false non match for an applicant can be that the system fails to identify the person s additional potentially fraudulent identities previously enrolled. Obviously system implementers wish to minimize both false matches and false non matches. However ROC graphs may show that minimizing one problem tends to exacerbate the other. Tuning a biometrics system to identify the maximum number of possible fraudulent duplicate enrollees minimizing false non matches may result in an increased number of enrollees being incorrectly identified as having multiple different identities an increase of false matches . Conversely a system tuned to minimize the number of applicants incorrectly identified as having multiple previously enrolled different identities will result in an increase in the number of possible fraudulent duplicate identities.

As noted previously manual follow up searching is one way of augmenting biometric searching. A given biometrics search system can require verification of candidate lists because they will contain false matches that is subjects whom the system has falsely identified as matches. In some instances the verification task is assigned to trained investigators who manually confirm each candidate s match. For example the candidate list generated by a one to many fingerprint search would be manually checked by trained fingerprint analysts to eliminate the false matches contained in the list and verify the actual matches. Such follow up checking is time consuming and expensive.

In a first aspect we have found that a biometrics system that utilizes two different biometrics a so called hybrid biometrics system can further automate and improve the biometrics search process especially for but not limited to applications involving the production of identification documents such as drivers licenses. In one embodiment the hybrid solution we propose combines the benefits of two biometric technologies the speed of facial recognition and the accuracy of fingerprint matching. This blending of two biometrics can result in faster processing time and reduced costs. In one embodiment this hybrid biometrics processing uses two different biometrics during the searching process where the two different biometrics are used sequentially. The first biometric e.g. a facial image is used to retrieve a first set of results and the first set of results are then searched using the second biometric e.g. a fingerprint .

Depending on the particular pairing of biometric templates used this process can provide a first biometric recognition process adapted for a one to many level coarse search to result in a candidate set of results that are usable by a second one to few type biometric recognition process. The set of results from the first biometric search process are therefore used by the second biometric search process. The inventors have found that use of two successive biometrics recognition processes e.g. one to many facial for a first search followed by one to relatively few fingerprint search can significantly improve the accuracy of the overall recognition and may reduce the number of images that ultimately must be manually reviewed. This type of combination can result in higher accuracy searches at lower costs and or in less time.

Selecting an appropriate combination also may result in higher accuracy searches at lower costs. For example one to many fingerprint systems at the present time are so expensive that sometimes entities such as departments of Motor Vehicles DMV s cannot afford them even though such one to many fingerprint searches often have desirable accuracy and may be easier to tune. In contrast one to few fingerprint systems at the present time are significantly less expensive than one to many fingerprint systems but are difficult to use with large databases. In contrast one to many type facial recognition systems are relatively less expensive than one to many fingerprint systems although they may be difficult to tune as described above . In at least one embodiment of the invention a system and method is provided that successively combines a one to many facial recognition system with a one to few fingerprint recognition system to achieve accuracy comparable to a one to many fingerprint system at about one third the cost of such a system.

This application describes additional inventive systems and methods for conducting biometrics searches and or improving the accuracy of biometrics searching. We have found for example that using at least some of the returned biometric search results from a first initial probe image whether or not the search is a hybrid type search as second probe images can be used to drill down even further in the database and return even more high probability matches to the first probe image.

One embodiment provides a computerized system for determining whether a database contains an image substantially matching that of a given probe candidate. The system comprises an input device a first database a first biometric search engine a second biometric search engine and a processor. The input device is constructed and arranged to receive first and second biometric search templates associated with the probe candidate the first biometric search template associated with a first type of biometric identifier and the second biometric search template associated with a second type of biometric identifier. The first database comprises a plurality of searchable biometric templates the plurality of searchable biometric templates comprising a plurality of templates of the first type of biometric and a plurality of templates of the second type of biometric. The first biometric search engine is operably coupled to the input device and to the database and is adapted to search the database of searchable biometric templates for a match to the first biometric template and return a first set of results. The second biometric search engine is operably coupled to the input device and to the database and is adapted to search the database of searchable biometric templates for a match to the second biometric template and return a second set of results. The processor is in operable communication with the input device and the first and second biometric search engines. The processor programmed to compare the first and second sets of results to the first and second biometric templates to determine whether any result in the first set of results or the second set of results is a substantial match to either the first or second biometric search templates associated with the probe candidate.

Another embodiment provides a computer implemented method for determining whether a database contains any images that substantially match at least one image provided of an individual. A probe data set is received the comprising first and second biometric templates associated with the individual the first biometric template associated with a different type of biometric than the second type of biometric template. A database of biometric templates is searched using the first biometric template to retrieve a first results set. A first predetermined portion of the first results set is selected. The first predetermined portion of the first results set is searched using the second biometric template to retrieve a second results set. A second predetermined portion of the second results set is selected. The second predetermined portion of the second results is provided for comparison with the image provided of the individual.

One aspect of the invention provides a computer implemented method for determining whether a database contains any images that substantially match an image associated with an individual comprising 

 a receiving an initial probe data set the first probe data set comprising at least one of a biometric template associated with the individual and non biometric data associated with the individual 

 b searching a database of biometric templates using the initial probe data set to retrieve a results set the results set comprising biometric templates that satisfy a predetermined first criteria 

 d searching the database of biometric templates using the refined probe data set to return a results set the results set comprising biometric templates that satisfy the predetermined first criteria 

Another aspect of the invention provides a computer implemented method for determining whether a database contains any images that substantially match those of an individual comprising 

 a receiving an initial probe data set the first probe data set comprising first and second biometric templates associated with the individual 

 b searching a database of biometric templates using the first biometric template to retrieve a first results set the first results set comprising a data set for each individual who has a biometric template that satisfies a predetermined first criteria the data set comprising biometric template information that is searchable using the second biometric template 

 d searching the first portion of the first results set using the second biometric template to retrieve a second results set the second results set comprising a data set for individuals who have a biometric template that satisfies a predetermined second criteria the data set comprising biometric template information that is searchable using the first and second biometric templates 

 f searching the database of biometric templates using the refined probe data set to return a results set the results set comprising biometric templates that satisfy a predetermined third criteria.

searching a database of data records for data records that substantially match the non biometric data record the database of data records including for each data record in the database at least one biometric template associated with at least one image 

receiving a first results set from the search of the database the results set comprising for each substantial match to the non biometric data record a results set data record comprising a corresponding image and biometric template 

searching the database of data records for data records having biometric templates that substantially match the biometric record associated with the results set data record.

In still another aspect the invention provides a method for determining whether an individual should receive an identification document comprising 

receiving a probe set associated with the individual the probe set comprising a first biometric template of a first type and a second biometric template of a second type 

performing a first search the first search comprising searching a database of previously enrolled biometric templates for a biometric template that substantially matches the biometric template of the first type 

performing a second search the second search comprising searching the database of previously enrolled biometric templates for a biometric template that substantially matches the biometric template of the second type and

analyzing the results of the first and second searches to determine whether any resulting matches indicate that the individual either is attempting to fraudulently obtain an identification document or has attempted to fraudulently obtain an identification document in the past.

The foregoing and other objects aspects features and advantages of this invention will become even more apparent from the following description and drawings and from the claims.

The drawings are not necessarily to scale emphasis instead is generally placed upon illustrating the principles of the invention. In addition in the drawings like reference numbers indicate like elements. Further in the Figures of this application in some instances a plurality of system elements or method steps may be shown as illustrative of a particular system element and a single system element or method step may be shown as illustrative of a plurality of a particular systems elements or method steps. It should be understood that showing a plurality of a particular element or step is not intended to imply that a system or method implemented in accordance with the invention must comprise more than one of that element or step nor is it intended by illustrating a single element or step that the invention is limited to embodiments having only a single one of that respective elements or steps. In addition the total number of elements or steps shown for a particular system element or method is not intended to be limiting those skilled in the art will recognize that the number of a particular system element or method steps can in some instances be selected to accommodate the particular user needs.

Before describing various embodiments in detail it is helpful to define some terms used herein and explain further some of the environments and applications in which at least some embodiments can be used.

In the foregoing discussion the use of the word ID document or identification document or security document is broadly defined and intended to include all types of ID documents including but not limited to documents magnetic disks credit cards bank cards phone cards stored value cards prepaid cards smart cards e.g. cards that include one more semiconductor chips such as memory devices microprocessors and microcontrollers contact cards contactless cards proximity cards e.g. radio frequency RFID cards passports driver s licenses network access cards employee badges debit cards security cards visas immigration documentation national ID cards citizenship cards social security cards security badges certificates identification cards or documents voter registration and or identification cards police ID cards border crossing cards security clearance badges and cards legal instruments gun permits badges gift certificates or cards membership cards or badges and tags. Also the terms document card badge and documentation are used interchangeably throughout this patent application. . ID document can include any item of value e.g. currency bank notes and checks where authenticity of the item is important and or where counterfeiting or fraud is an issue.

In addition in the foregoing discussion identification at least refers to the use of an ID document to provide identification and or authentication of a user and or the ID document itself. For example in a conventional driver s license one or more portrait images on the card are intended to show a likeness of the authorized holder of the card. For purposes of identification at least one portrait on the card regardless of whether or not the portrait is visible to a human eye without appropriate stimulation preferably shows an identification quality likeness of the holder such that someone viewing the card can determine with reasonable confidence whether the holder of the card actually is the person whose image is on the card. Identification quality images in at least one embodiment include covert images that when viewed using the proper facilitator e.g. an appropriate light or temperature source provide a discernable image that is usable for identification or authentication purposes.

Further in at least some embodiments identification and authentication are intended to include in addition to the conventional meanings of these words functions such as recognition information decoration and any other purpose for which an indicia can be placed upon an article in the article s raw partially prepared or final state. Also instead of ID documents the inventive techniques can be employed with product tags product packaging business cards bags charts maps labels etc. etc. particularly those items including marking of an laminate or over laminate structure. The term ID document thus is broadly defined herein to include these tags labels packaging cards etc.

Many types of identification cards and documents such as driving licenses national or government identification cards bank cards credit cards controlled access cards and smart cards carry thereon certain items of information which relate to the identity of the bearer. Examples of such information include name address birth date signature and photographic image the cards or documents may in addition carry other variant data i.e. data specific to a particular card or document for example an employee number and invariant data i.e. data common to a large number of cards for example the name of an employer . All of the cards described above will hereinafter be generically referred to as ID documents .

As those skilled in the art know ID documents such as drivers licenses can contain information such as a photographic image a bar code which may contain information specific to the person whose image appears in the photographic image and or information that is the same from ID document to ID document variable personal information such as an address signature and or birthdate biometric information associated with the person whose image appears in the photographic image e.g. a fingerprint a magnetic stripe which for example can be on the a side of the ID document that is opposite the side with the photographic image and various security features such as a security pattern for example a printed pattern comprising a tightly printed pattern of finely divided printed and unprinted areas in close proximity to each other such as a fine line printed security pattern as is used in the printing of banknote paper stock certificates and the like .

An exemplary ID document can comprise a core layer which can be pre printed such as a light colored opaque material e.g. TESLIN available from PPG Industries or polyvinyl chloride PVC material . The core is laminated with a transparent material such as clear PVC to form a so called card blank . Information such as variable personal information e.g. photographic information is printed on the card blank using a method such as Dye Diffusion Thermal Transfer D2T2 printing described further below and also described in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 6 066 594 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The information can for example comprise an indicium or indicia such as the invariant or nonvarying information common to a large number of identification documents for example the name and logo of the organization issuing the documents. The information may be formed by any known process capable of forming the indicium on the specific core material used.

To protect the information that is printed an additional layer of transparent overlaminate can be coupled to the card blank and printed information as is known by those skilled in the art. Illustrative examples of usable materials for overlaminates include biaxially oriented polyester or other optically clear durable plastic film.

In the production of images useful in the field of identification documentation it may be desirable to embody into a document such as an ID card drivers license passport or the like data or indicia representative of the document issuer e.g. an official seal or the name or mark of a company or educational institution and data or indicia representative of the document bearer e.g. a photographic likeness name or address . Typically a pattern logo or other distinctive marking representative of the document issuer will serve as a means of verifying the authenticity genuineness or valid issuance of the document. A photographic likeness or other data or indicia personal to the bearer will validate the right of access to certain facilities or the prior authorization to engage in commercial transactions and activities.

Identification documents such as ID cards having printed background security patterns designs or logos and identification data personal to the card bearer have been known and are described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 3 758 970 issued Sep. 18 1973 to M. Annenberg in Great Britain Pat. No. 1 472 581 issued to G. A. O. Gesellschaft Fur Automation Und Organisation mbH published Mar. 10 1976 in International Patent Application PCT GB82 00150 published Nov. 25 1982 as Publication No. WO 82 04149 in U.S. Pat. No. 4 653 775 issued Mar. 31 1987 to T. Raphael et al. in U.S. Pat. No. 4 738 949 issued Apr. 19 1988 to G. S. Sethi et al. and in U.S. Pat. No. 5 261 987 issued Nov. 16 1993 to J. W. Luening et al. All of the aforementioned documents are hereby incorporated by reference.

Commercial systems for issuing ID documents are of two main types namely so called central issue CI and so called on the spot or over the counter OTC issue. CI type ID documents are not immediately provided to the bearer but are later issued to the bearer from a central location. For example in one type of CI environment a bearer reports to a document station where data is collected the data are forwarded to a central location where the card is produced and the card is forwarded to the bearer often by mail. In contrast to CI identification documents OTC identification documents are issued immediately to a bearer who is present at a document issuing station. An OTC assembling process provides an ID document on the spot . An illustrative example of an OTC assembling process is a Department of Motor Vehicles DMV setting where a driver s license is issued to person on the spot after a successful exam. . Further details relating to various methods for printing and production of identification documents can be found in the following commonly assigned patent applications which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety 

Biometrics relates generally to the science of measuring and analyzing biological characteristics especially those of humans. One important application of biometrics is its use in security related applications such as identification of an individual or authentication of an individual s identity by using measurable individualized and often unique human physiological characteristics. Examples of human physiological characteristics that can be used as biometric identifiers include but are not limited to face fingerprint including use for both fingerprint recognition systems and Automated Fingerprint Identification Systems AFIS thumbprint hand print iris retina hand geometry finger geometry thermogram heat signatures of a given physiological feature e.g. the face where the image is captured using a device such as an infrared camera and the heat signature is used to create a biometric template used for matching hand vein measuring the differences in subcutaneous features of the hand using infrared imaging signature voice keystroke dynamic odor breath and deoxyribonucleic acid DNA . We anticipate that any one or more of these biometrics is usable with the embodiments described herein.

The reader is presumed to be familiar with how each of the biometrics listed above works and how biometric templates are created with each method. We note however that embodiments can utilize many different types of information to create biometric templates. For example to create face and or finger templates information that can be used may include but is not limited to law enforcement images e.g. mug shots fingerprint exemplars etc. print images from any source e.g. photographs video stills etc. digitized or scanned images images captured at a capture station information provided by other databases and or sketches e.g. police sketches .

The system also includes a biometric search system which in this embodiment include a first biometric search system and a second biometric search system . The first biometric search system and the second biometric search system each includes a respective search engine capable of searching the database of previously enrolled biometric templates . In at least one embodiment the search engine of the first biometric search system is a biometric search engine selected to search using a first type of biometric technology such as facial recognition and the search engine of the second biometric search system is a biometric search engine selected to search using a second type of biometric technology such as fingerprint recognition.

In one embodiment the first biometric search system is system that is relatively economical efficient quick and reasonably accurate for one to many type searching such as a facial recognition system and the second biometric search system is a system such as a fingerprint recognition system that is very accurate and reasonably quick for one to few or one to not so many searching but which may be not as quick or inexpensive as the first biometric search system. For clarity in explanation many of the embodiments described herein are explained using face and fingerprint biometrics however the invention is not so limited and virtually any biometric can be usable. For example in one embodiment the first biometric search system is a facial recognition system employing a local features analysis LFA methodology such as the FACE IT facial recognition system available from Identix of Minnesota. Other facial recognition systems available from other vendors e.g. Cognitec Imagis Viisage Eyematic VisionSphere DreamMirth C VIS etc. are usable with at least some embodiments as those skilled in the art will appreciate. In one embodiment the second biometric search system is an AFIS or AFIS lite compatible system available from NEC. Other fingerprint recognition systems available from other vendors e.g. BioScript SecuGen Identix Digital Persona Sagem Motorola BAC Indivos etc. including both AFIS and non AFIS type systems are of course usable note that AFIS systems can sometimes be restricted to use by law enforcement personnel only .

The system also includes a biometric template database comprising previously enrolled biometric templates and a demographic database comprising demographic information associated with each respective biometric template in the biometric template database . For example in one embodiment the biometric template database and demographic database are associated with a plurality of records of individuals who have obtained an identification document e.g. a driver s license in a given jurisdiction. Either or both of the biometric template database and demographic database can be part of a database of official records e.g. a database maintained by an issuer such as a department of state department of motor vehicles insurer employer etc. . In some embodiments the system further includes a search results database for storing the results of searches conducted by the workstation .

As those skilled in the art will appreciate the search results database biometric template database and the demographic database can be implemented using any type of memory device capable of storing data records or electrical signals representative of data and permitting the data records or electrical signals to be retrieved including but not limited to semiconductor memory devices e.g. RAM ROM EEPROM EPROM PROM etc flash memory memory sticks e.g. those manufactured by Sony mass storage devices e.g. optical disks tapes disks floppy disk a digital versatile disk DVD a compact disk CD RAID type memory systems etc.

Referring again to in at least some embodiments the system includes an image data capture system which can be any system capable of acquiring images and or data that can be used whether directly or after conversion to a template for biometric system. The particular elements of the image data capture system will of course be dependent on the particular biometrics used. For example signature pads may be used to acquire signatures of individuals camera systems may be used to acquire particular types of images e.g. facial images iris images retinal scanners may be used to acquire retinal scans fingerprint scanning and capture devices may be used to capture fingerprint images IR cameras can acquire thermogram images etc. Those skilled in the art will readily understand what particular pieces of equipment may be required to capture or otherwise acquire a given piece of data or a given image.

In an advantageous embodiment the image data capture system can be implemented to automatically locate and capture biometric information in an image that it receives. For example in one embodiment that implements a face recognition biometric we utilize proprietary Find A Face software available from the assignee of the present invention Digimarc Corporation of Burlington MA . Find A Face software has the intelligence to automatically without the need for any operator intervention 

In another advantageous embodiment we have found that biometric templates created based on the data captured using the image data capture system can be further improved by utilizing of various methods to improve finding particular biometric features such as eyes can further be used to improve the performance of biometric searches that use facial recognition. For example in one embodiment we use systems and methods described in commonly assigned provisional patent application No. 60 480 257 entitled Systems and Methods for Detecting Skin Eye Region and Pupils the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. The systems and methods described in this patent application are in one embodiment implemented using a computer such as the workstation .

Referring again to in at least some embodiments the workstation can be in operable communication with an ID document production system which can for example include a printer controller that controls the printing of ID documents by an ID document printing system . The ID document production system can for example be a CI or OTC type document production system as described previously and also as described in commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 325 434 entitled Multiple Image Security Features for Identification Documents and Methods of Making Same . In at least some embodiments the workstation communicates with the ID document production system to control whether or not a given ID document will be created for issuance to an individual based on the results of biometric searching.

Systems and methods described herein in accordance with the invention can be implemented using any type of general purpose computer system such as a personal computer PC laptop computer server workstation personal digital assistant PDA mobile communications device interconnected group of general purpose computers and the like running any one of a variety of operating systems. As noted previously the workstation can for example be a computer system. is a block diagram of a computer system usable as the workstation in the embodiment of .

Referring briefly to the workstation includes a central processor associated memory for storing programs and or data an input output controller a network interface a display device one or more input devices a fixed or hard disk drive unit a floppy disk drive unit a tape drive unit and a data bus coupling these components to allow communication therebetween.

The central processor can be any type of microprocessor such as a PENTIUM processor made by Intel of Santa Clara Calif. The display device can be any type of display such as a liquid crystal display LCD cathode ray tube display CRT light emitting diode LED and the like capable of displaying in whole or in part the outputs generated in accordance with the systems and methods of the invention. The input device can be any type of device capable of providing the inputs described herein such as keyboards numeric keypads touch screens pointing devices switches styluses and light pens. The network interface can be any type of a device card adapter or connector that provides the computer system with network access to a computer or other device such as a printer. In one embodiment the network interface enables the workstation to connect to a computer network such as the Internet.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer systems embodying the present invention need not include every element shown in and that equivalents to each of the elements are intended to be included within the spirit and scope of the invention. For example the workstation need not include the tape drive and may include other types of drives such as compact disk read only memory CD ROM drives. CD ROM drives can for example be used to store some or all of the databases described herein.

In at least one embodiment of the invention one or more computer programs define the operational capabilities of the workstation . These programs can be loaded into the computer system in many ways such as via the hard disk drive the floppy disk drive the tape drive or the network interface . Alternatively the programs can reside in a permanent memory portion e.g. a read only memory ROM chip of the main memory . In another embodiment the workstation can include specially designed dedicated hard wired electronic circuits that perform all functions described herein without the need for instructions from computer programs.

In at least one embodiment the workstation is networked to other devices such as in a client server or peer to peer system. For example referring to the workstation can be networked with an external data system . The workstation can for example be a client system a server system or a peer system. In one embodiment the invention is implemented at the server side and receives and responds to requests from a client such as a reader application running on a user computer.

The client can be any entity such as a the workstation or specific components thereof e.g. terminal personal computer mainframe computer workstation hand held device electronic book personal digital assistant peripheral etc. or a software program running on a computer directly or indirectly connected or connectable in any known or later developed manner to any type of computer network such as the Internet. For example a representative client is a personal computer that is x86 PowerPC.RTM. PENTIUM based or RISC based that includes an operating system such as IBM.RTM LINUX OS 2.RTM. or any member of the MICROSOFT WINDOWS family made by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Washington and that includes a Web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER NETSCAPE NAVIGATOR made by Netscape Corporation Mountain View Calif. having a Java Virtual Machine JVM and support for application plug ins or helper applications. A client may also be a notebook computer a handheld computing device e.g. a PDA an Internet appliance a telephone an electronic reader device or any other such device connectable to the computer network.

The server can be any entity such as the workstation a computer platform an adjunct to a computer or platform or any component thereof such as a program that can respond to requests from a client. Of course a client can be broadly construed to mean one who requests or gets the file and server can be broadly construed to be the entity that sends or forwards the file. The server also may include a display supporting a graphical user interface GUI for management and administration and an Application Programming Interface API that provides extensions to enable application developers to extend and or customize the core functionality thereof through software programs including Common Gateway Interface CGI programs plug ins servlets active server pages server side include SSI functions and the like.

In addition software embodying at least some aspects of the invention in one embodiment resides in an application running on the workstation . In at least one embodiment the present invention is embodied in a computer readable program medium usable with the general purpose computer system . In at least one embodiment the present invention is embodied in a data structure stored on a computer or a computer readable program medium. In addition in one embodiment an embodiment of the invention is embodied in a transmission medium such as one or more carrier wave signals transmitted between the computer system and another entity such as another computer system a server a wireless network etc. The invention also in at least one embodiment is embodied in an application programming interface API or a user interface. In addition the invention in at least one embodiment can be embodied in a data structure.

The method of also can be used to help to authenticate an individual presenting himself or herself by confirming that the biometric information that the individual provides matches biometric information stored in the individual s data records.

Referring to a probe set is received at the workstation step . The probe set comprises one or more biometric templates associated with an individual. is an illustrative example of face and fingerprint images that are used to create a probe set usable with the method of . Referring again to the workstation sends one biometric from the probe set to the first biometric search system . In this example the first biometric search system performs a one to many facial search step . The one to many facial search can include searching one or more of the biometric template database an external database or a database of facial images .

When the search is complete the first biometric search system returns first level search results step to the workstation . is an illustrative example of part of the search results through that could be returned as part of step note that the total number of search results and the type of search results provided are provided by way of example only and are not limiting . Each search result through of can also include other data e.g. other biometrics such as fingerprints demographic data etc. from the data record associated with each search result. For simplicity of illustration this additional data is not illustrated in . In the example of the search results through are each returned with a Face Score indicating a degree of match to the probe image . As the search results through illustrate images that appear to substantially match the probe image generally but not necessarily will score higher than those images that do not appear to substantially match. The images of may or may not be displayed to an operator of the system this can depend in one embodiment on how many results are retrieved. For example in one embodiment the results returned in step can be many hundreds of thousands of images which may be impractical for the operator to review.

Note that in at least some embodiments the one to many biometric search performed in step can itself comprise more than one search or pass of the database it is searching. For example some facial recognition search systems such as the Identix FACE IT product can utilize one or more biometric facial templates as part of its searching. For example one implementation of the FACE IT product employs a first facial biometric template a so called vector template of about 84 bytes for coarse searching followed by a fine search using a larger second facial biometric template of about 3500 bytes. Thus in one embodiment the one to many facial search of step actually comprises two search passes one using the 84 byte template and the other using the 3500 byte template. Depending on the processing power available to conduct the searching the time for this search may be quick or may be relatively long. In another embodiment the 1 many facial search step of actually utilizes only one or the other of the 84 and 3500 byte templates. Using just one of the templates can help to increase the overall search speed especially for large databases. For example using the small 84 byte facial recognition template and parallel processing techniques a single individual can be matched against a relatively large e.g. a million or more records database of faces in less than fifteen seconds.

Referring again to and if the number of first level results are considered to be too great for efficient searching using the second biometric step a variety of criteria can be used to refine and or selectively eliminate some of the results step . One example of such criteria is selecting only those results above a particular threshold step . For example for the results of the threshold might be set to be all results having a face score of 75 or greater therefore results through would be discarded and results through would be retained. The criteria need not be solely based on a criterion such as a threshold face score however. For example in one embodiment the threshold could comprise automatic selection of certain number either an absolute number e.g. the top 100 or a specific percentage e.g. the top 10 of the results returned in step .

Combination criteria also are possible e.g. the top 10 or top 100 whichever is smaller the top 10 that also meet another requirement such as enrollment within the last 5 years etc. . Criteria for refining the first level result can even be based upon or weighted using known or suspected fraud patterns. For example if it is determined that a given record is more likely to be fraudulent if it was enrolled by a certain issuing office in a high fraud area then all other things being equal that record is more likely to appear on the refined list. As another example if it is determined that a given group of records are more likely to be fraudulent if they are all enrolled within a brief time period then these records may be weighted to rank higher in the group that is ultimately part of the refined results set.

Virtually any criteria of interest can be used to select results and we anticipate that even dynamic criteria e.g. criteria based on the actual results received can be usable. For example the criteria can dynamically change to reflect the face score distribution or any other biometric match score distribution of the results. Consider a situation where a probe image returns a set of 10 000 results and all but 30 of the returned results have a match score distribution that is extremely low e.g. under 20 . A criteria that normally chooses the top 100 or top 10 of the returned results can be overridden to select only the returned results that also meet another criteria e.g. a minimum match score when the match scores on the returned results indicate that the majority of returned results are not close matches. This can speed up searching and or improve searching accuracy. Such a result cannot be known in advance but the method of can be adapted to accommodate these types of variations in results.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that these types of criteria are merely illustrative and not exhaustive and that criteria can be created and used based on a given need.

Referring again to and the refined set of first level results is then searched using the second biometric template step to return a second set of results step . In the example of the second biometric template is a template related to a fingerprint but this is not limiting. is an illustrative example of a second biometric image associated with a biometric template that is used in step . FIG. SB is an illustrative example of a second results set returned in step . As FIG. SB illustrates the first result has a finger score of 99 which may indicate that the returned fingerprint is a very close match to the probe fingerprint. Referring again to in one embodiment where the results set of step includes more than one result that satisfies a predetermined criteria step e.g. more than one result having a match score of 80 or greater additional manual analysis of the returned images may be necessary step to help determine whether a match has been detected. Note that the criteria for step can be as varied as the criteria previously discussed in connection with step . are additional illustrative examples of probe images and returned results respectively for the system of .

We have also discovered other techniques for improving the accuracy reliability and or efficiency of biometric searching. At least some of these techniques also involve multiple biometric searches. During our testing of various biometric searching systems we have fount that in at least some instances when we use one or more of the closest matches to an original probe as a probe itself this new probe can itself be used find additional good matches to the original probe and these matches can also be used as further probes and so on. is a flow chart of a second method for conducting a biometric search in accordance with one embodiment. In a type of progressive searching which is sometimes referred to as drill down can be used to refine the search process and improve search accuracy.

Referring to after a probe set containing at least one biometric template is received step the database is searched using the biometric template step and a first set of ranked results is returned step . A subset of the first results is selected step based on a first rule step to be used as additional probes. The first rule can be similar to the criteria described for step of . In one embodiment as shown in the first rule can be based on one ore more of predetermined automatic system settings step e.g. a threshold and user input step . For example user input may be useful where manual review of results helps to select the best images to be used as new probes. In at least some embodiments steps through can be conducted in a batch mode with results awaiting manual user input in step then the remaining steps can later be performed in batch mode.

After the subset of the first results is selected providing a stop condition has not been reached step the subset is used as new probes and the search process is repeated until the stop condition is reached steps . Stop conditions can be any condition that is deemed sufficient to stop the search. For example a stop condition can be one or more of the following conditions 

Other types of stop conditions are of course usable. When the stop condition is met step the results can be saved for review by an investigator steps . Investigator review can include for example detailed comparison of the original probe image with the retrieved image including comparisons of information such as demographic information. This can be helpful in detecting fraud and or error for example a individual may have a matching image in the database but differing personal data e.g. demographic data which could be due to issuer error e.g. incorrectly entering a record or attempted fraud.

In some instances other actions may take place after the results are saved depending on the application in which the method of is used. For example if the method of is used to determine if an individual s record is in a database more than once for the purposes of fraud or error detection prior to issuance of an ID document and the searching of produces no matches meeting a required criteria the individual can be automatically permitted to receive an ID document. In another example if the method of is used to determine if an individual s record is in a database at all such as for identification of the user such as to grant admittance to a secure facility then if the searching of produces no matches meeting a required criteria the individual can be denied entry to the facility.

As an illustrative example of the method s operation assume that the facial image of was used to generate a biometric probe for step of and assume that the results through of were received as the first set of ranked results of step . Assume that the first rule step is that results in the first set of ranked results having a face score greater than or equal to 90 are to be selected from the first set of ranked results and used as the first subset of step . In the results of that would mean that the result image the only result having a score greater than or equal to 90 is used to generate a new biometric probe to search the database steps and of . An illustrative example of the results that can be retrieved using the result image as a probe can be seen in . As the results through of show use of the new probe has returned results that may be a closer match to the original probe than were the original results. In fact at least one of the results of namely result was not retrieved in the first set of results of but was retrieved in the results set of B and is clearly a good match to the original probe image. Detailed information relating to the probe image and the retrieved results can be compared as shown in which shows the probe image demographic data and fingerprint of the probe image in a side by side comparison with one of the result images namely result image . As show although the facial appearance and fingerprint appear to be substantially identical the personal information is clearly not matching. An investigator can determine whether this is due to error or fraud.

The method of can also be adapted to systems using more than one biometric template as shown in . The method of is substantially similar to the method of except that a second biometric steps and is used to help generate a probe set that is used for drill down searching. In this probe set both the first and second biometrics are used as the method repeats steps .

We have found that this use of results as additional probes can be advantageous especially for face recognition systems. Sometimes a given facial recognition probe does not retrieve all legitimate matches to it even if such matches exist in the database. This can be due to many factors including but not limited to factors which can affect biometric template creation of the face such as facial expression head tilting aging hair covering a facial feature etc. any or all of which can sometimes affect search accuracy. Consider a situation where a starting probe image shows an individual whose head is tilted enough to change the eye alignment of that individual s face as compared to another image of the same individual when the individual s head is not tilted. Because eye location is very important to many types of facial recognition biometric systems even minor changes in eye alignment may affect the types of search results that are retrieved.

Consequently a biometric template created based on a tilted head image might not retrieve all images of the same individual in a database especially images where the individual s head is tilted in a different way or is untilted etc. Such a template might however might retrieve at least one duplicate image and associated record for the individual such as an image where the individual s head is slightly tilted but not as much as in the original image . That retrieved image might be of a quality such that it can create a slightly different biometric template which may result in a different and potentially more accurate set of results to be retrieved. Of course this is but one example and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a given result used as a new probe may return results that are more or less closely matched to an original image and for widely varying reasons.

We have also found that the methods of can be adapted for many different types of criteria and applications. For example in one embodiment step of the method of can be replaced with a step that involves manual selection of a subset. In one embodiment step of or step of can be replaced with a step that involves selecting a subset of the second set of ranked results based on substantially matching non biometric data. For example one or more results retrieved may have substantially similar non biometric data e.g. birthdate and address to that of the probe or even to that of other retrieved results . Having a returned result present a low biometric match score but still having some data that match can in some instances indicate that an individual has permitted others to use his or her personal information to obtain fraudulent identification documents. In other instances it may also indicate unauthorized use of an individual s personal information.

In another embodiment the methods of either or may unintentionally detect duplicate records that while not being substantially close matches to the probe m image might actually be very close matches to each other. The method of can be adapted for example to flag such inter results matching and initiate a separate search using those results as new probes. This separate search can take place while the original search is occurring or can wait until the original search is complete depending on computational and database availability.

We even anticipate that the method of can be used to implement functionality as disparate as computer dating searching for models and or actors and law enforcement searching. For example in a computer dating or model actor search implementation an individual may be desirous of finding a person in the database who looks like their ideal which ideal may be an image resembling for example an ex girlfriend or boyfriend a celebrity or model an idealized image created by the individual an image that closely resembles the individual himself or herself etc. An individual can after retrieving one or two potential match images then use those images to locate more candidates who resemble the ideal. The results be filtered and refined manually or automatically in accordance with age geographical location etc.

In a law enforcement application a law enforcement officer and a victim or witness can search a database of virtually any kind of images e.g. mug shots drivers license images surveillance images etc. in an attempt to find an image that most closely resembles a witness victim s recollection of the alleged criminal s appearance. A police sketch can be used as an initial probe then as the witness victim reviews the results can select the results that most closely resemble the alleged criminal and use these images as further probes. Law enforcement can further compare fingerprints retrieved at the scene with any retrieved results if desired. In that manner the methods of and can be used as an automated electronic lineup.

The methods we have discovered also can be adapted for a mix of biometric and non biometric searching. is a flow chart of a third method for conducting a biometric search in accordance with one embodiment. In the database is initially searched using non biometric probe data step . For example a non biometric probe data set can be used to retrieve all data records having a specific matching demographic and or administrative feature e.g. all records showing the same name and birthdate . The results that are retrieved for this search can include biometric data step . A subset of the biometric data can be further reviewed and searched steps through in a manner similar to that described in based on a predetermined criteria. The predetermined criteria can be selected to help further discover fraud and or errors. For example if multiple records have the same name and birthdate but show low biometric match scores with each other based on any biometric further review may be necessary to determine whether a given identity is being used by multiple different individuals. In another example if multiple records have the same name and birthdate and high biometric match scores it may be indicative of a record erroneously being entered more than once in a database

One advantageous application that we have found for the methods of and is in the issuance of identification documents such as driver s licenses. Referring to if at step there are any unexpected matches found in the database e.g. matches that are not legitimate previous records of the individual the workstation can tell the printing system to not print an identification document for the individual until an investigation is conducted Similarly in step and step if there are match results for review the workstation can tell the printing system to not print an identification document for the individual until an investigation occurs. is an illustrative a block diagram of a system we have implemented for the issuance if identification documents that implements the methods of .

Of course those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention is not limited to the above described combinations of biometrics technologies. Virtually any cost effective pairing of one to many and one to few automated biometrics technologies is usable with the invention. In particular it is envisioned that as some biometrics technologies become less expensive e.g. one to many fingerprint searching such technologies may desirable for use in embodiments of the invention. Further in instances where cost is not an issue but increased speed and or accuracy of the searching is important virtually any successive combination of biometrics technologies is usable with embodiments of the invention.

Embodiments of the invention may be particularly usable in reducing fraud in systems used for creating and manufacturing identification cards such as driver s licenses manufacturing systems. Such systems are described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 995 081 4 879 747 5 380 695 5 579 694 4 330 350 4 773 677 5 923 380 4 992 353 480 551 4 701 040 4 572 634 4 516 845 4 428 997 5 075 769 5 157 424 and 4 653 775 all of which are incorporated herein in their entirety.

Such card systems may include a variety of built in security features as well to help reduce identity fraud. In an illustrative embodiment of the invention the biometric authentication process described above can be used during the production of a photo identification document that includes a digital watermark. Digital watermarking is a process for modifying physical or electronic media to embed a machine readable code therein. The media may be modified such that the embedded code is imperceptible or nearly imperceptible to the user yet may be detected through an automated detection process. The code may be embedded e.g. in a photograph text graphic image substrate or laminate texture and or a background pattern or tint of the photo identification document. The code can even be conveyed through ultraviolet or infrared inks and dyes.

Digital watermarking systems typically have two primary components an encoder that embeds the digital watermark in a host media signal and a decoder that detects and reads the embedded digital watermark from a signal suspected of containing a digital watermark. The encoder embeds a digital watermark by altering a host media signal. To illustrate if the host media signal includes a photograph the digital watermark can be embedded in the photograph and the embedded photograph can be printed on a photo identification document. The decoding component analyzes a suspect signal to detect whether a digital watermark is present. In applications where the digital watermark encodes information e.g. a unique identifier the decoding component extracts this information from the detected digital watermark.

Several particular digital watermarking techniques have been developed. The reader is presumed to be familiar with the literature in this field. Particular techniques for embedding and detecting imperceptible watermarks in media are detailed e.g. in Digimarc s co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 503 881 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 6 122 403. Techniques for embedding digital watermarks in identification documents are even further detailed e.g. in Digimarc s co pending U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 10 094 593 filed Mar. 6 2002 and 10 170 223 filed Jun. 10 2002 co pending U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 358 321 filed Feb. 19 2002 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 841 886. Each of the above mentioned U.S. Patent documents is herein incorporated by reference.

In describing the embodiments of the invention and in illustrating embodiments of the invention in the figures specific terminology is used for the sake of clarity. However the invention is not limited to the specific terms so selected and each specific term at least includes all technical and functional equivalents that operate in a similar manner to accomplish a similar purpose. Use of a given word phrase language terminology or product brand is intended to include all grammatical literal scientific technical and functional equivalents. The terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and not limitation.

Although the invention has been described and pictured in a preferred form with a certain degree of particularity it is understood that the present disclosure of the preferred form has been made only by way of example and that numerous changes in the details of construction and combination and arrangement of parts may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

Having described and illustrated the principles of the technology with reference to specific implementations it will be recognized that the technology can be implemented in many other different forms and in many different environments. The technology disclosed herein can be used in combination with other technologies. Also instead of ID documents the inventive techniques can be employed with product tags product packaging labels business cards bags charts smart cards maps labels etc. etc. The term ID document is broadly defined herein to include these tags maps labels packaging cards etc.

It should be appreciated that the methods described above as well as the methods for implementing and embedding digital watermarks can be carried out on a general purpose computer. These methods can of course be implemented using software hardware or a combination of hardware and software. Systems and methods in accordance with the invention can be implemented using any type of general purpose computer system such as a personal computer PC laptop computer server workstation personal digital assistant PDA mobile communications device interconnected group of general purpose computers and the like running any one of a variety of operating systems. We note that some image handling software such as Adobe s PrintShop as well as image adaptive software such as LEADTOOLS which provide a library of image processing functions and which is available from LEAD Technologies Inc. of Charlotte N.C. can be used to facilitate these methods including steps such as providing enhanced contrast converting from a color image to a monochromatic image thickening of an edge dithering registration manually adjusting a shadow etc. Computer executable software embodying the steps or a subset of the steps can be stored on a computer readable media such as a diskette removable media DVD CD hard drive electronic memory circuit etc. .

Moreover those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the embodiments of the invention described herein can be modified to accommodate and or comply with changes and improvements in the applicable technology and standards referred to herein. Variations modifications and other implementations of what is described herein can occur to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and the scope of the invention as claimed.

The particular combinations of elements and features in the above detailed embodiments are exemplary only the interchanging and substitution of these teachings with other teachings in this and the incorporated by reference patents applications are also expressly contemplated. As those skilled in the art will recognize variations modifications and other implementations of what is described herein can occur to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and the scope of the invention as claimed. Accordingly the foregoing description is by way of example only and is not intended as limiting. The invention s scope is defined in the following claims and the equivalents thereto.

All publications and references cited herein are expressly incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Having described the preferred embodiments of the invention it will now become apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that other embodiments incorporating their concepts may be used. These embodiments should not be limited to disclosed embodiments but rather should be limited only by the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

