---

title: Baseline comparative leading indicator analysis
abstract: According to typical inventive practice, a baseline describing a statistical distribution is established for a set of historical occurrences of an event. Comparison is made between the baseline and at least one current occurrence of the same event. Any current occurrence that is anomalous vis-à-vis the baseline is considered a possible leading indicator. According to some inventive embodiments of graphical presentation of such comparison, at least one graphical baseline comparative display component is rendered that includes a “bar” (describing a historical statistical distribution with respect to a criterion pertaining to occurrence of an event) and a “slider” (describing one or more current occurrences of the event). The bar includes at least one band representing a statistical mean range, and at least one band representing a statistical outlier range. Situation of the slider along the bar indicates whether and to what extent the current occurrence(s) is/are anomalous vis-à-vis the baseline.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07797130&OS=07797130&RS=07797130
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07797130
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071220
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

This application is related to U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 12 006 753 filing date 20 Dec. 2007 incorporated herein by reference invention title Intelligent Leading Indicator Display joint inventors Eric J. Silberg Phong Hua Nguyen Daniel P. Everson and Naipei P. Bi.

The present invention relates to prediction of events more particularly to predictive and informative methods that involve leading indicator analysis.

Leading Indicator LI analysis is a methodology of predicting future events based on past performance. It involves a measurement or combination of measurements that when properly analyzed can provide a prediction of a potential future occurrence. Leading indicators are used regularly in business and finance to predict performance e.g. of a company or an industry for purposes such as making more informed investment decisions.

Leading indicator analysis is now beginning to make its way into aviation safety realms with various aims such as prediction and hopefully avoidance of mishaps maintenance or improvement of efficient operating practices evaluation of training methods and identification of underperforming or outperforming pilots or aircraft. Leading indicators can be used for evaluating many aspects of aircrew and aircraft performance. Leading indicator analysis can be applied to any observable or experiential system of or related to an air vehicle that is any system that has or can have data associated with it including engines structural components pilot and aircrew.

Current leading indicator approaches typically rely on comparing data to a desired outcome. For instance let us assume that according to a rule a commercial aircraft is not supposed to exceed an air speed of 700 knots during normal operations. According to a conventional leading indicator analytical method flight data is analyzed to determine whether or not any pilots have exceeded this air speed limit. This kind of approach in which comparison of data is made with respect to a rule is inherently constrained in that it requires that limits be known documented and identifiable in the available data.

Conventional leading indicator analysis methods are rule comparative in nature. A rule comparative leading indicator RCLI compares an individual event to one or more rules that have been established. By setting one or more limits a rule serves to guide prescribe or prohibit conduct action or behavior. For instance in the aircraft safety realm an RCLI can compare an individual flight to regulations restrictions standard operating procedures and or system operating limitations to determine compliance of the individual flight in one or more of these respects. An RCLI is obtained through analyzing data from a single flight followed by comparing these data to a set of predetermined rules.

RCLI analyses can indicate aircrew compliance or non compliance with rules and guidelines or can indicate systems operation inside or outside prescribed limits. Violation of policy may be interpreted as a precursor to a mishap i.e. as a leading indicator to a potential mishap. Similarly an indication of system operation beyond prescribed limits may be interpreted as a leading indicator to a system failure or malfunction or to an accelerated usage rate. If a leading indicator is addressed this might prevent occurrence in the future of the undesirable circumstance. RCLI analyses can be conducted to identify not only policy violations but also policy near violations as well as unsafe albeit technically or marginally compliant practices.

Leading Indicator analysis is typically multidimensional concerning multiple aspects and yielding multiple pieces of information per aspect. Often the resultant data do not lend themselves to display via standard techniques of plotting or data visualization. The kind of information generated through leading indicator analysis may be understood by an expert or analyst but a decision maker may be hard pressed to make much sense of it.

Currently unknown is an automated system for presenting leading indicator analytical information directly to decision makers in a manner easily intelligible to them. Conventional presentational methods usually constitute manual assemblages of information by analysts and experts compiled into reports or slideshows and then presented to the decision makers. An automated straightforward and easily comprehensible presentation method is needed in order to utilize leading indicator analytical information to the fullest.

Many modern aircraft are equipped with at least one advanced aircraft data recorder ADR designed to track maintenance related information. A maintenance dedicated ADR may encompass system fault information mechanical parameters flight control parameters air data or other data deemed relevant to system diagnostics or prognostics. Automatically and continually the data are collected and processed using onboard diagnostic systems and or specially configured ground stations post flight. The recorded data are designed to be used for specific purposes typically for fault based maintenance and or condition based maintenance and or component usage tracking depending on the maintenance scheme implemented for the aircraft or subsystem.

Present day aircraft data recorders enable flight data analysis that is continual rather than only if a mishap occurs. Aircraft data recorders may contain various types of data including systems data flight parameters data control inputs and outputs and flight events e.g. stall weight on wheels gear movement etc. . Because these aircraft data recorders are principally used for maintenance they are downloaded on a regular basis. In contrast crash survivable data recorders are downloaded only after a mishap. Although ADR usage has been primarily relegated to supporting maintenance processes the potential exists for harvesting much more information from these recorded data using modern methods of data analysis and advanced statistical analysis. Technical specifications for these types of data e.g. recording rate accuracy precision resolution and the conditions under which the data are recorded may also be useful.

Through the years there have been various initiatives to improve flight safety and maximize operational efficiency. New regulations have built upon preceding regulations to improve the safety of aircraft both mechanically and operationally. With reference to technical and programmatic changes effected by United States Naval aviation have resulted in significant safety improvements and associated mishap reductions. On the one hand the recent U.S. Naval aviation mishap rate is a fraction of what it once was on the other hand the recent U.S. Naval aviation mishap rate has stabilized in the last decade or so no longer showing a decreasing trend. Safety issues similarly remain for commercial airlines to address. Future breakthroughs in flight safety may have much to do with greater abilities to derive valuable safety information preemptively rather than after the fact.

In view of the foregoing an object of the present invention is to provide a better leading indicator analysis methodology. A further object of the present invention is to provide a better leading indicator display methodology. Other objects of the present invention include providing such LI analytical and LI display methodologies that are especially propitious for flight safety applications.

As discussed hereinabove in the aircraft safety realm the potential exists for leading indicator analyses to further diagnostics prognostics and condition based maintenance of aircraft systems and components objective assessments of aircrew performances prevention of future mishaps and investigation of past mishaps. Two types of leading indicator can be useful for these and other purposes. The first type referred to herein as a rule comparative leading indicator acronymically designated herein RCLI is conventionally used in various disciplines. The second type referred to herein as a baseline comparative leading indicator acronymically designated herein BCLI is a novelty that is featured by the present invention. The present invention s BCLI analysis breaks new ground in the area of aircraft data analysis and in other areas.

Rule comparative leading indicators determine compliance with existing rules. Generally speaking rule comparative leading indicators are simpler than baseline comparative leading indicators. For instance in the aircraft safety realm RCLI analysis typically compares an individual flight to regulations restrictions standard operating procedures or system operating limitations. In contrast the present invention s baseline comparative leading indicators are more complex than rule comparative leading indicators. For instance in the aircraft safety realm the present invention s BCLI analysis typically involves evaluation of a large number of flights to determine how normal operations appear in the data then comparison of individual flights to this norm synonymously referred to herein as baseline to look for outliers synonymously referred to herein as anomalies .

Rule comparative leading indicators involve comparison of an event such as a flight to a rule i.e. a known standard. In contrast the present invention s baseline comparative leading indicators involve comparison of an event such as a flight to a baseline. The inventive BCLI analytical methodology accounts for the fact that many incidents e.g. airplane mishaps are caused by actions or failures that were not previously known or tracked. Baseline comparative leading indicators can be utilized to identify abnormal behavior in a system in which limits are unknown or in a system in which limits are known only to indicate actual failure rather than impending or potential failure.

In terms of springboard information the present invention s BCLI analysis requires only the availability of historical data. The historical data is inventively transformed into a baseline which is typically a mathematical device that is informative indicative or representative of the historical data. Current data is inventively compared to the baseline thereby searching for anomalies outliers in the current data versus the baseline. Known limits are usually not required for an effective application of the present invention s BCLI analytical principles with respect to a given system. Typically inventive practice requires available data but does not require known limits nevertheless the inventive BCLI analytical methodology as sometimes practiced does incorporate known limits to utilize for purposes such as event detection and trending.

Typical inventive practice involves comparison of real current data to real historical data. Inventive practice can involve non real historical data i.e. historical data that is assumed contrived configured hypothetical imaginary fictitious etc. instead of or in addition to real historical data. According to such inventive embodiments real current data can be inventively analyzed with respect to non real data for which the corresponding baseline s is are characterized by limitations or distributions that are at least partially based on non real data.

The inventive method as typically embodied provides for a determination of a baseline for normal operations. The present invention s baseline does not rely on published or customary standards or limits instead the present invention s baseline is founded on characterization of the typical state of an aircraft in standard operational circumstances. Inventive baselines may be determined for many systems flight maneuvers and flight phases. The results of inventive BCLI analysis frequently include a series of envelopes that characterize the data for these maneuvers. The baselines can be constantly updated with each flight but will generally be stable after a statistically significant amount of data is collected.

As a general guiding principle for inventive practice an inventive baseline should describe a relatively smooth statistical distribution referred to herein as a normal distribution. If the baseline is skewed or one sided or otherwise manifests a non normal distribution it should be transformed into a normal distribution in order to be used effectively in inventive practice. A baseline should be characterized by a sufficient degree of normalcy to impart validity to a comparison of current data to the historical data represented by the baseline. If a baseline cannot be transformed into a normal distribution it will likely be unsuitable or impractical for use in inventive practice.

According to frequent inventive practice identification of a BCLI requires comparison of a single flight with respect to a baseline. If this single flight does not fall within the normal range of the baseline typically 1.5 to 2 standard deviations from the median it will be considered an outlier anomaly and hence a potential leading indicator. As the number of data sets contributing to the baseline grows the baseline s essential character distribution should not change unless there is a change in behavior.

A changing baseline in and of itself can be a BCLI. For instance let us assume that a baseline is formulated from multiple historical previous flights. As the number of flights contributing to the baseline grows this distribution should not change in the absence of behavioral change. Therefore if a baseline changes significantly in character over time and through increases in data this significant change in character may represent a baseline comparative leading indicator.

To recapitulate the present invention s baseline comparative leading indicator BCLI analysis is a unique methodology for determining a leading indicator of a system. The inventive method as usually practiced includes providing historical data e.g. a statistical set or analysis of historical data and comparing current data to the historical data. The comparing of the current data to the historical data includes detecting of anomalies outliers of the current data versus the historical data. The inventive method often further includes predicting of future occurrences based on the comparing of the current data to the historical data.

A baseline comparative leading indicator does not require prior knowledge of limits envelopes or procedures in order to operate. The present invention s unique approach of anomaly detection and leading indicator identification does not require knowledge of the operational limits of a system. Rather inventive BCLI analysis uses historical data to analyze and characterize new data. Furthermore inventive BCLI analysis can detect anomalous behavior in sets of data where operation is always within established limitations.

A typical embodiment of the present invention s BCLI analysis includes two main components viz. i baseline determination for normal operations and ii comparative data set analysis. Inventive determination of a baseline for normal operations does not rely on published standards or limits but rather on characterizing the typical state of the data through statistical analysis. Once a baseline is determined it is utilized through comparison with a new data set. The new data set must also be statistically analyzed in a manner consistent with the baseline. Once it has been reduced it may be compared to the baseline. If the statistics of the new data set do not fall within the normal range of the baseline typically closer than 1.5 to 2 standard deviations away from the mean it will be considered an anomaly and hence a BCLI.

A BCLI can be used to detect abnormal behavior in any system. Baselines may be determined for any among diverse systems. The term system as used herein in context of inventive practice of baseline determination and or BCLI analysis broadly refers to any system organization unit regime aspect mode condition organism etc. characterized by parts components ingredients constituents elements properties etc.

The present invention s BCLI analysis can be propitiously practiced to detect abnormal pilot behavior regardless of whether such behavior is justified by influencing factors. Inventive BCLI analysis can bring to light an otherwise unseen practice or performance deficiency. Consequently the issue can be addressed using inventively obtained objective information before it becomes a contributing causal factor of a mishap. Another possible area of inventive BCLI analysis in the aircraft safety realm is the detection of abnormally functioning systems regardless of whether such systems otherwise reveal signs of fault. Inventive BCLI analysis can identify anomalous systems by comparing one flight of a single aircraft to either a a baseline of flights of a fleet of aircraft or b a baseline of flights of the subject single aircraft.

Once a BCLI is detected via the inventive leading indicator methodology this does not necessarily imply that the inventively detected BCLI is of extreme or monumental importance. One or more systems experts will usually be required to assess the importance of the BCLI and to further assess whether and what action if any should be taken.

In addition to the baseline comparative leading indicator BCLI analytical methodology the present invention provides an intelligent leading indicator display ILID methodology. The inventive ILID methodology as typically practiced provides a system for presenting multi dimensional information regarding leading indicators in a clear easily comprehensible manner.

Inventive ILID practice is especially propitious when brought to bear on inventive BCLI data or when otherwise associated with inventive BCLI analysis practice. According to typical practice of the inventive BCLI analytical methodology a single occurrence of an event a current event is compared to a large set of similar events historical events . Each historical event is analyzed and scored based on a number of criteria. Scores for each criterion are compiled to form a baseline viz. a descriptive set of data representing the large group. The statistical distribution of the baseline is computed and defined by at least one conventional statistical criterion selected from conventional statistical criteria including but not limited to mean median mode standard deviation and skewness. Each criterion can have associated therewith its own individual baseline. Alternatively two or more criteria can have the same baseline associated therewith that is plural criteria can be combined to form a blended baseline.

Each single event of interest is compared to at least one baseline each baseline corresponding to one or more criteria. Where the single event falls on the baseline distribution provides an indication about that event e.g. how that event was executed compared to the large set of similar events which is represented by that baseline. The present invention s ILID as frequently embodied provides a method to present this kind of information the method including display of i one or more color coded bars e.g. horizontal bars each bar representing a baseline and ii one or more contrasting sliders each slider representing the single event of interest and being informatively positioned along one of the bars. Each bar is color coded so as to be segmented into plural bands also referred to herein as ranges each band having a color that is sufficiently contrastive vis vis the other bands. Depending on the inventive embodiment adjacent bands of a given bar can be distinctly demarcated or can be indistinctly demarcated so as to appear to merge into one another.

The present invention s ILID methodology provides a quick and effective vehicle for imparting complex data particularly to non technical people e.g. managers officials and decision makers who are not technically savvy in the subject matter but who need to comprehend the complex data. Most people will easily become accustomed to reading inventive ILID displays because inventive ILID displays are attributed with a kind of intuitive grasp ability. The present invention s ILID can display all of the pertinent data all at once in an easy to understand intuitive manner. In contrast tabular methods of data presentation can show numbers values but lack an inventive ILID s at a glance elegance and lucidity. Furthermore an inventive ILID display can be embodied in a customizable or automated fashion to afford flexibility or consistency in displaying a variety of leading indicator information.

Moreover an inventive ILID system may intrinsically afford an effective way to see the big picture. Inventive ILID practice can serve to evaluate the performance of the large set e.g. a fleet of air vehicles through inspection of the graphical baseline. This can permit identification of events that require fleet wide attention. An example of this can be seen in the eighth criterion from the top where the mean is skewed heavily to the right and the second standard deviation does not show. This would imply that this particular criterion is being executed neither well nor consistently in the large sample set.

Incorporated herein by reference is the following paper co authored and presented at a 2007 conference by present inventors which discloses some aspects of the present invention Eric J. Silberg Phong Hua Nguyen Daniel P. Everson and David Wilson Leading Indicators A Powerful Tool to Improve Rotorcraft Safety presented at the International Helicopter Safety Symposium Montreal Canada 19 21 Sep. 2007.

Other objects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The inventive BCLI analysis methodology and the inventive ILID methodology were tested by the United States Navy in association with various types of Naval aircraft having onboard data collection systems. The below described examples of inventive practice derive from the U.S. Navy s testing of the inventive methodologies.

A manufacturing defect in a specific lot of aircraft engines caused a number of catastrophic failures. This in turn caused significant damage to multiple aircraft. The question was raised as to whether or not existed prior to failure any leading indicators of failure or abnormal operation. The type of aircraft involved has a robust onboard data collection system with ample data for conducting comparative analyses in accordance with the present invention s BCLI analystical methodology. With a view toward identifying anomalous behavior vibration data from the engine that failed was compared to engine vibration data from roughly 4 000 flights of other aircraft with similar engines. The 4 000 flights constituted the baseline for this inventive BCLI analysis.

With reference to the distribution of the vibration data referred to herein as the vibration signature from the known failed engine is compared with the vibration signature of the baseline. It is seen in that as compared with the baseline engines the failed engine s signature is notably greater in magnitude prior to its failure. This does not indicate that the vibrations trended higher prior to failure rather this indicates that the engine exhibited a regular level of vibration higher than the normal fleet value for that engine. None of these flights showed vibration levels higher than the value specified as safe for that engine.

Thus the abnormally high vibration signature of the known failed engine vis vis the vibration signature of the baseline constituted a BCLI. Subject matter experts were called in to assess the significance of an abnormally high engine vibration signature in the context of inventive BCLI analysis albeit the engine vibration signature was within specified limits of the applicable standard. The subject experts confirmed that the engine vibration was within the ostensibly acceptable vibration limits but acknowledged the abnormality of the engine vibration based on the inventive BCLI analysis.

It was determined by the subject experts that the actual defect in the engine could not be detected prior to failure. It was suggested by the subject experts that the higher than normal vibration may have aggravated the material problem potentially causing failure earlier than expected. Further analysis detected another in service engine with a similarly high vibration signature. While this other engine was known not to have the manufacturing defect it did show a similar BCLI this other engine continued to be flown and monitored.

Pilot performance and proficiency are currently evaluated by instructor pilots IP s skilled aviators who greatly influence pilots in training. During a training phase an IP will sometimes not be present in the cockpit with the student thereby relying on the student s sensibilities for the student s self evaluation. In addition some subjectivity in grading criteria among different IPs is unavoidable.

The present invention s BCLI analytical methodology can represent an automated approach to evaluating pilot performance. The inventive BCLI analysis of flight data should not replace IP expert evaluation but rather should supplement it by providing more objective measurement of pilot performance for various criteria in a training and evaluation environment.

 Approach to landing approach and landing is a critical and rather well defined phase of flight and was selected as a test maneuver for inventive evaluation. With reference to through inventive baseline comparative leading indicator methodology was practiced to identify pilot underperformance based on historical data pertaining to the approach to landing phase. The inventive BCLI methodology was effectuated to compare individual approaches to landing with a baseline statistically determined from data aggregated from approaches to landing by a large sampling of squadron pilots for an extended period of time. Selected data criterion values were plotted for an individual approach to landing to show the amount each value deviated from the statistically derived norm.

More than 2 600 landings were analyzed that took place over the course of two and one half years in four helicopters with prototype flight data collection systems. Of the more than 2 600 approaches to landing over the 2 year period 943 were determined to fall within allowable margins for the selected criteria and were used to derive the baseline data set to which individual approaches to landing could be compared. shows the distribution of aircraft altitude over range of ground speeds for this baseline dataset.

The entire set of 2 000 plus landings was analyzed to form eleven baselines to which a single landing or groups of landings could be compared. Five general approach and landing parameters each including one or more inventive criteria were tracked throughout a landing evolution viz. airspeed ground speed pitch attitude glide path angle and rate of climb. For inventive analytical purposes the landing evolution was divided into different criteria each criterion falling into one of these general parameters. The Naval Air Training and Operating Procedures Standardization NATOPS Manual was used to select the eleven criteria to be utilized in applying inventive BCLI analytical methodology.

As shown in the following eleven criteria for normal approaches to landing for airfield landing patterns were used to establish the baseline data set airspeed at 300 250 feet above ground level glide path angle at 300 250 feet above ground level airspeed at 200 150 feet above ground level glide path angle at 200 150 feet above ground level ground speed at 35 25 feet above ground level pitch attitude at 35 25 feet above ground level ground speed at 15 5 feet above ground level drift speed at 15 5 feet above ground level pitch attitude at 15 5 feet above ground level rate of descent at less than 5 feet above ground level drift speed at less than 5 feet above ground level.

Still referring to a baseline is determined for each criterion in accordance with inventive BCLI methodology. Each baseline is represented as a banded horizontal bar so as to allow a single landing to be visually assessed. According to usual inventive practice each baseline representative criterion related bar includes at least two bands. Each band constitutes a region e.g. section or segment of a bar. illustrates the eleven individual evaluation criteria and the baseline comparative evaluation for a typical landing. Each criterion is analyzed as a graphical bar representing a range of values. Each bar corresponds to its own individual criterion and is broken down into bands according to the distribution of the corresponding baseline.

The comprehensive multi color graphic display of intelligibly presents a comparison of an individual approach to landing to the baseline i.e. the statistically derived norm. As shown in the color green indicates values within one standard deviation of the mean. The color yellow indicates transition values from one to two standard deviations from the mean. The color red indicates values greater than two standard deviations from the mean. The values of criteria from the individual approach to landing being compared to the baseline data set are depicted as white black outlined vertical event sliders S. Bands corresponding to statistical ranges are displayed on these plots as well. shows this display for a typical landing.

In each horizontal bar shown in the full range of values is centered upon the mean performance of the historical approach and landing data. That is the mean value of the baseline data for each criterion is calculated and assigned a zero score with deviations from this norm measured in standard deviations of the baseline data. Each criterion related bar is sectioned into plural differently colored bands three bands red yellow green as shown in . In each bar the green band encompasses the range of values up to one standard deviation. The transition to yellow occurs at one standard deviation away from the mean. The yellow band encompasses the range of values between one standard deviation and two standard deviations. The transition to red occurs at two standard deviations from the mean. The red band encompasses the range of values over two standard deviations. Thin vertical dark e.g. black lines demarcating delineating between bands e.g. between green and yellow bands and between yellow and red bands such as depicted in may be included in a bar to promote clarity but are generally optional in inventive practice of the ILID mode shown in .

Each contrastively multi banded horizontal bar has associated therewith one slider. As depicted in slider S is substantially white colored to facilitate its visualization vis vis the horizontal bar along which slider S slides. The slider indicates the criterion value for a single landing. Where this slider falls on each baseline representative criterion related bar indicates how that particular landing compares to the baseline. When the slider is in the green band i.e. the green region of the bar the performance with respect to that specific criterion is considered acceptable. When the slider is in the red band i.e. the red region of the bar the performance with respect to that specific criterion is considered poor and is deemed to constitute a potential BCLI.

It is understood by the skilled artisan who reads the instant disclosure that contrasting colors utilized in inventive practice are not necessarily relegated to the colors white green yellow and red. Neither the green yellow red color band scheme of the bars nor the predominantly white color of the slider is necessarily used in inventive practice. Nor is the horizontal orientation of the bars necessarily so as the bars can have a non horizontal e.g. vertical orientation. The overlying objective is for an inventive display to effectively convey the information it contains and this typically entails utilization of contrasting colors and or shades and or patterns among bands and sliders. According to some inventive embodiments the colors green yellow and red are useful colors of bands in a bar in a kind of analogy to a conventional three color traffic signal in which the green light signifies go the yellow light signifies slow down proceed with caution and the red light signifies stop. By analogy to this tri color traffic signal scheme in inventive practice the color green can signify comportment with respect to a baseline the color yellow can signify moderate anomalousness outlying with respect to a baseline and the color red can signify severe anomalousness outlying with respect to a baseline.

The individual criterion plots shown in through provide details beyond those provided by . represents the corresponding baselines in a comprehensive display. Each of through illustrates one of the eleven criterion related bands illustrated in . Shown in through are plots of airspeed ground speed pitch attitude glide path angle and rate of climb throughout the evolution of the approach to landing. through are additionally informative about the specific performance of one flight in terms of comparison with baselines corresponding to phases or stages occurring throughout the entire course of the landing evolution. As shown in through each plotted point represents one data point during the landing evolution. Each of the bands shown in thorough is identical to the corresponding criterion related band shown in insofar as being characterized by the same statistical range.

In contradistinction to shows an example of below average landing performance. through pertain to similarly as through pertain to . The outlying tendencies exhibited in may constitute a BCLI of an underperforming pilot. shows the individual performance indicated by slider S as falling in the yellow and red bands for each of several criteria albeit not for all of the criteria. These anomalies outliers with respect to the green band for a given criterion related bar are clear indications of a below average or non standard landing evolution. If this type of baseline comparative leading indicator were to regularly appear for a particular pilot it could warrant further analysis and potential corrective action to reduce the likelihood of a mishap.

It is emphasized that practice of the present invention s BCLI analytical methodology does not preclude separate practice of conventional RCLI analytical methodology which can also provide useful information. In other words inventive BCLI analysis and conventional RCLI analysis can complement each other. In this example in addition to the inventive BCLI analysis an RCLI analysis was performed whereby each landing was compared to standard operating procedures SOPs to ascertain compliance. If an absolute violation of procedure was detected a rule comparative leading indicator RCLI was generated for that landing.

This example illustrates how combined practice of inventive BCLI analysis and inventive ILID display can yield quick and straightforward assessment of overall performance of aircraft pilots. Nevertheless combined inventive practice should be regarded as providing and presenting useful information but not as replacing a specially qualified individual e.g. expert instructor or expert evaluator who can interpret results and formulate a plan for correcting below average performance. The present invention s BCLI and ILID methodologies practiced together constitute a unique analytical tool for effecting automated comparison of selected events to statistically derived norms.

Inventive BCLI analysis does not require known or previously defined threshold values but rather provides for derivation by the practitioner of the applicable baseline through analysis of a statistically significant data set determined by him her to be representative of desired criteria. Results according to inventive BCLI analysis can be visualized according to inventive ILID display which typically includes implementation of a multi color coded graph format. An inventive ILID graphical presentation is typically a kind of user friendly snapshot view of a comparison that can be used to quickly gleam information. For instance an inventive ILID graphical presentation can quickly convey incisive information concerning performance of a pilot which is viewed relative to the baseline moreover a quick assessment can be made as to whether further research or analysis is indicated.

The inventive BCLI analytical methodology represents a potentially significant enhancement to existing evaluation methods. Inventive BCLI analysis brings the capability for instance to objectively compare a pilot s performance to a statistically derived baseline from similar maneuvers flown by other pilots within the same community. In addition inventive BCLI analysis can easily trend a pilot s performance through the training and qualification process and could lead to a Navy Standard Score NSS type grading for pilot training with grades being determined by deviation from the validated norm. An objective standard score could help to minimize inconsistencies in grading among instructors and could eventually evolve into a tool for assessing and tracking individual pilot performance throughout a flying career. The inventive BCLI analytical methodology can be applied to any aircrew or aircraft system performance issue that has a statistically significant data set from which to derive a baseline norm . The potential of inventive BCLI analysis for improved objectivity in evaluating shipboard landings is especially noteworthy. Potential applications of inventive BCLI analysis are limited only by the availability of relevant data.

Reference is still made to and and is also made to . is similar to and insofar as illustrating presentation of information by inventive ILID methodology using color coded horizontal bars and contrasting sliders. In and each color coded bar represents a baseline each bar is sectioned into differently colored bands and each contrasting slider indicated as slider S represents a single event of interest. and alike demonstrate how inventive BCLI analysis can involve multiple analyses. More generally this multi analytical genre of inventive BCLI practice is distinguishable from the uni analytical genre of inventive BCLI practice such as illustrated by . The latter is less complex for instance based on a single parameter or criterion such as engine vibration the former is more complex for instance based on multiple parameters or criteria such as associated with landing performance evaluation.

The inventive ILID mode shown in and presents each baseline in three types of bands viz. a green band up to 1 standard deviation from the mean a yellow band 1 2 standard deviations from the mean and a red band 2 standard deviations from the mean . The graphical presentation of the inventive ILID mode shown in and is centered about the green bands each of which is in the middle of its bar. Each bar has one medial greed band two yellow bands adjacent to and on opposite sides of the red band two red bands adjacent to the yellow bands and at opposite extremes of the bar.

The inventive ILID mode shown in presents each baseline as a bar having four bands or fewer. In some bands contain two colors that transition into one another. The bands of each bar are differentiated by color or color combination and are demarcated or delineated by dark e.g. black vertical lines through the bar. In each bar shown in the bands are delineated by black vertical lines interior of the left and right ends of the bar. Vertical delineative lines are more important in this mode of inventive ILID practice than they are in the mode of inventive ILID practice portrayed in and . In the mode of inventive practice portrayed in and each band of a given bar is solidly colored accordingly the distinctions or separations between bands generally are readily apparent even in the absence of vertical delineators between bands that may serve to accentuate the distinctions separations. In contrast the mode of inventive ILID practice shown in typically involves some bi colored bands that are intermediate some mono colored bands.

As shown in the entirely green segment first band from the left represents performance at or above better than the mean. Color transition from green to yellow occurs in the transitionally green to yellow segment second band from the left which represents performance below worse than the mean and up to one standard deviation from the mean. Color transition from yellow to red occurs in the transitionally yellow to red segment third band from the left which represents performance below worse than the mean and between one and two standard deviations from the mean. The entirely red segment fourth band from the left represents performance below worse than the mean and greater than two standard deviations from the mean.

According to typical inventive practice a slider in a red colored area of the bar whether in a transitional yellow to red band or a purely red band would be considered an anomaly outlier . Such would indicate that the event is statistically outside the range of normal operations and in the direction considered to be bad. The inventive ILID system should be considered to be intelligibly presenting data rather than to be rendering profound judgments or wide reaching conclusions. An inventive ILID typically displays metrics from a single event relative to metrics of a large set of the same event. An expert should be availed of to read deeper and broader meanings into an inventive ILID.

Other delineative purposes of relatively thin dark vertical lines are possible in inventive practice depending on the criteria of interest. For instance if a rule violation is associated with a particular criterion that is represented by a graphical baseline bar the rule violation can be indicated e.g. via vertical line or narrow segment in the context of the baseline bar thus a given bar can be hybridized so as to be informative of inventive BCLI type comparison as well as of conventional RCLI type comparison. Thus if a particular performance falls within a red area of a bar and is on the bad side of a performance standard demarcated by a vertical line on the bar this graphical circumstance may be doubly suggestive viz. that the individual performance is unsatisfactory and that the performance standard is appropriately set.

The inventive ILID mode portrayed in and is similar to but also differs in significant respects from the inventive ILID mode portrayed in . The inventive ILID mode of and is more objective in the sense that a statistical mean is centralized and both plus and minus deviation therefrom is visualized. The various colors red yellow green are used in and to form uniformly colored bands that illustrate various ranges in terms of standard deviations with respect to the mean. In a horizontal graphical baseline bar the lone medial green band represents up to one standard deviation from mean performance the two yellow bands on opposite sides of the medial green band represent one to two standard deviations from mean performance the two extreme red bands represent over two standard deviations from mean performance. The person who views this inventive ILID mode gains a quick grasp of comparative information e.g. individual performance vis vis historical performance.

As distinguished from the inventive ILID mode of and the inventive ILID mode of intends to convey both objective quantitative and subjective qualitative information to the viewer. The ILID display of is set up to rate performance on a horizontal scale from zero worst on the righthand side to one best on the lefthand side . The colors themselves green yellow red do not strictly comport with the bands as the intermediate bands in each bar are bi colored. Somewhat analogously to the bands of the inventive ILID mode of and the bands of denote ranges in terms of standard deviations with respect to the mean. However as distinguished from and the colors of connote varying degrees of acceptability of performance with respect to the ideal performance designated one on the lefthand side of the x axis. Hence a slider falling in a green color area of a bar might suggest unequivocal acceptability in a yellow color area of a bar might suggest marginal acceptability or marginal unacceptability and in a red color area of a bar might suggest unequivocal unacceptability.

Inventive practice such as described hereinabove with reference to and typically involves comparison of a historical data based baseline with a current event. As previously mentioned herein meaningful information can be inventively obtained by studying a baseline itself so as to discern how the baseline changes over time. For instance further insight into U.S. Navy Fleet wide performance can be seen by tracking changes in the baselines themselves. Changes in the averages and spreads of the data can indicate improvement or degradation in Fleet performance and consistency. This type of inventive BCLI analysis can also be applied to individual squadrons or even to individual pilots if enough data exists. This information may be used to assess training methods complacency or standardization.

Reference is now made to which illustrates how a changing baseline over time can be informative about the continued performance of a large data set. Otherwise expressed the historical data itself can be continually re evaluated so as to repeatedly apply the same statistical technique with the same standard deviational values to the continually updated data set. As shown in a changing baseline is graphically represented over time so that baseline fluctuation is exhibited and measurable in terms of where the three standard deviational ranges fall in the context of the ordinate values which are represented along the y axis as a range of arbitrary dimensionless values from zero to twelve.

There is wide latitude for configuring an ILID display in accordance with the present invention. Generally speaking the ultimate objective of a given inventive ILID is to meet the informational needs of the subject at hand. For instance in an inventive ILID display of the kind shown in and the criteria can be selected ordered demarcated and or banded in a variety of ways to suite the inventive practitioner.

With reference to An inventive ILID display can be generated by a computer system that includes a processor memory a display and a human interface . An inventive computer program product is resident in the memory of the computer and has computer program logic recorded therein and embodied in computer code for enabling computer to perform either or both of inventive BCLI analysis and ILID presentation. An inventive ILID can thus be displayed on a computer display and rendered in hard copy via a printer. The present invention s computer program logic can be embodied for instance so as to be able to variously configure the inventive ILID display in accordance with particular needs especially the information desired.

In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention a computer program product is for residence in memory of a computer. The inventive computer program product comprises a computer useable medium having computer program logic recorded thereon. The computer program logic is embodied in computer code for enabling the computer to evaluate relative performance of an activity. The evaluation of relative performance includes a formulating a baseline and b comparing at least one subject performance of an activity to the baseline. The baseline represents a statistical distribution for plural historical performances of an activity. The comparing includes determining the existence of anomalousness of the at least one subject performance with respect to the plural historical performances. According to some inventive embodiments if the at least one subject performance is encompassed by the at least one statistical non normative range the comparing includes ascertaining the degree of anomalousness with respect to the statistical normative range. The ascertaining of the degree of anomalousness includes consideration of the situation of the at least one current performance relative to the statistical normative range.

In addition or alternative to the above the present invention s computer program logic can be embodied in computer code for enabling the computer to graphically display relative performance of an activity. The graphical display of relative performance includes a displaying at least one bar and b displaying at least one slider. Each bar corresponds to a criterion for performance of an activity. Each said bar represents a baseline describing a statistical distribution for plural historical performances of an activity with respect to the criterion. Each slider includes plural bands at least one band represents a statistical normative range and at least one band represents a statistical non normative range. Each slider is visually situated upon a bar in either a statistical normative range or a statistical non normative range. Each slider represents a subject performance of the activity with respect to the criterion to which corresponds the bar upon which the slider is visually situated.

Once the criteria are determined by an inventive practitioner the entire combined inventive process of i BCLI analysis including creation and updating of baselines based on historical data and comparison of current data to historical data and ii ILID presentation including graphical representation of each baseline as a bar having bands and disposition of sliders on the bars may be inventively effected using an inventive computer program product . Alternatively inventive BCLI analysis and inventive ILID presentation can each be independently practiced by way of computer program product.

Moreover inventive practice can be automated through integration or networking of a local computer e.g. personal computer such as desktop or laptop with an external database electronic or non electronic such as contained in or associated with a central computer host computer server data warehouse repository or library. Exchange e.g. importation and exportation of information can take place through communication of the local computer with the external database. The inventive computer program product can render different ILID presentations according to different datasets obtained from the external database.

The present invention which is disclosed herein is not to be limited by the embodiments described or illustrated herein which are given by way of example and not of limitation. Other embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from a consideration of the instant disclosure or from practice of the present invention. Various omissions modifications and changes to the principles disclosed herein may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the true scope and spirit of the present invention which is indicated by the following claims.

