---

title: Systems and methods for targeted advertising on wireless devices based on device location and current user interests
abstract: Aspects provide for systems, methods, apparatus and computer program products for selecting advertisements for presentation on wireless device applications based on the current device location and the current interests of the device user. The current interests of the device user are defined by the application currently being executed on the device and/or current user inputted requests for content. In this regard, present aspects provide for highly targeted advertising that serves to provide advertisements to users based on their current needs, which are defined in terms of their current interests and current location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08588816&OS=08588816&RS=08588816
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08588816
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071221
---
The described aspects relate to wireless communication and more particularly to methods systems and apparatus for selecting advertisements for wireless device applications based on current wireless device location and current user interests.

Wireless communication networks have been designed to deliver media content to recipients. For example wireless communication networks may comprise a broadcast or multicast system which transmit information to multiple recipients at the same time. One such example of such as system is the MediaFLO media distribution system available from QUALCOMM Incorporated of San Diego Calif. In addition to delivering real time broadcast programming these types of media distribution systems are especially suited for the delivery and presentation of advertising media content otherwise referred to as advertisements or ads to wireless communication devices such as cellular telephones and the like. In addition to multicast and broadcast media distribution systems other wireless device applications may be configured to receive and present advertising media content.

Success in the online advertising market has resulted in heightened interest in wireless or mobile advertising. Online advertising has shown that advertisers are more willing to pay a premium for improved advertising effectiveness. In this regard online advertising has resulted in a payment model in which advertisers only pay for quantifiable advertising results such as a payment based on each occurrence of a user clicking an advertisement to redirect the browser to the advertiser s web site or a similar user interface with the advertisement. In addition the online advertising market has demonstrated that users are tolerant of unobtrusive advertisements placed in user requested content. Unobtrusive advertisements may take the form of advertisement banners presented in the border regions of the content scrolling text or the like. One example of such advertising in connection with user requested content is online search engine results which are typically displayed in conjunction with advertisements such as prioritized list results side banners or the like.

Location is key differentiator of a mobile wireless networked device relative to a fixed device such as personal computer or the like. Thus while the fixed device primarily remains at one location the wireless device may be located anywhere at any given point in time. Many of the currently available wireless devices are equipped with some form of location determination such that the device or device in combination with the network can determine the current location of the wireless device. Such location determination is readily used in mapping applications as well as many other applications that may be implemented on the wireless device. In this regard the wireless device may be equipped with Global Positioning System GPS location determination capability another satellite based location determination capability or a network based location determination capability such as AFLT Advanced Forward. Link Trilateration or the like.

Additionally various applications that are implemented on wireless devices provide the capability to assess a user s current temporal interest. For example real time broadcast programming such as the MediaFLO media distribution system provide for a user s current temporal interest to be defined by the programming the device is currently receiving and presenting. Another example is provided for by a gaming application or a shopping client that defines the user s current temporal interest in terms of the game being played or the product or service being browsed. In addition other applications such as network search applications and the like require user inputted content requests and network interface to return content related to the user inputted requests. In this regard the user inputted request defines the user s current temporal interest.

Therefore a need exists for a system method apparatus and or computer program product for providing targeted advertisements on wireless devices. Specifically the desired aspects should provide for real time targeting of advertisements such that current temporal information is used to determine which advertisements should be selected for presentation on a specified wireless device.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented infra.

Thus present aspects provide systems methods and apparatus for selecting advertisements for presentation on wireless device applications based on the current device location and the current interests of the device user. The current interests of the device user are defined by the application currently being executed on the device and or current user inputted requests for content. In this regard present aspects provide for highly targeted advertising that serves to provide advertisements to users based on their current needs which are defined in terms of their current interests and current location.

In one aspect a method is defined for selecting advertisements for presentation on a wireless device. The method includes receiving from a wireless device content information associated with a current temporal interest of a user of the wireless device and current wireless device location information. The content associated with the content information provides for one or more impending advertisement spaces. The method additionally includes selecting one or more advertisements for insertion in the one or more impending advertisement spaces based on an association between the one or more advertisements the content information and a current wireless device location and communicating to the wireless device a result of the selection such that the one or more advertisements are inserted in the advertisement spaces of the content.

In one aspect of the method receiving the content information further includes receiving metadata associated with content currently being executed by an application on the wireless device such as broadcast multicast programming gaming programs or the like. In another aspect of the method receiving the content information further includes receiving a user inputted request for content that defines the current temporal interest of the user of the wireless device.

In one aspect of the method receiving may further include receiving formatting information associated with the one or more impending advertisement spaces. In such aspects selecting one or more advertisements for insertion flintier includes selecting one or more advertisements for insertion in the one or more impending advertisement spaces based on an association between the one or more advertisements the content information the current wireless device location and the formatting information. In alternate aspects in which selection of the one or more advertisements is not based on the formatting information the method may include formatting the selected one or more advertisements in accordance with the formatting information.

In certain aspects the method may further include retrieving the one or more selected advertisements from network storage. In such aspects communicating a result of the selection may include communicating the one or more selected advertisements to the wireless device. In alternate aspects the wireless device may be preconfigured to cache the selected advertisements and therefore the result of the selection may be a list of the selected content. In those aspects in which the received content information includes a user inputted request for content communicating the result of the selection may further include communication of the requested content.

In certain aspects of the method receiving current wireless device location information may include receiving the current wireless device location. Other aspects of the method may include determining the current wireless device location based on the received current wireless device location information.

In certain aspects the method may additionally include receiving presentation or impression information from the wireless device. The presentation information defines the number of presentations impressions for selected advertisements. In this regard the presentation information provides advertising accountability assures that selected advertisements are being presented and provides for the service provider to bill the advertiser on a per presentation impression basis.

Another related aspect is defined by at least one processor configured to select advertisements for presentation on a wireless device. The processor includes a first module for receiving from a wireless device content information associated with a current temporal interest of a user of the wireless device and current wireless device location information. The content associated with the content information provides for one or more impending advertisement spaces. The processor additionally includes a second module for selecting one or more advertisements for insertion in the one or more impending advertisement spaces based on an association between the one or more advertisements the content information and a current wireless device location and a third module for communicating to the wireless device a result of the selection such that the one or more advertisements are inserted in the advertisement spaces of the content.

A further related aspect is provided for by a computer program product that includes a computer readable medium. The medium includes at least one instruction for causing a computer to receive from a wireless device content information associated with a current temporal interest of a user of the wireless device and current wireless device location information. The content associated with the content information provides for one or more impending advertisement spaces. The medium additionally includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to select one or more advertisements for insertion in the one or more impending advertisement spaces based on an association between the one or more advertisements the content information and a current wireless device location and at least one instruction for causing the computer to communicate to the wireless device a result of the selection such that the one or more advertisements are inserted in the advertisement spaces of the content.

An apparatus defines another related aspect. The apparatus includes means for receiving from a wireless device content information associated with a current temporal interest of a user of the wireless device and current wireless device location information. The content associated with the content information provides for one or more impending advertisement spaces. The apparatus additionally includes means for selecting one or more advertisements for insertion in the one or more impending advertisement spaces based on an association between the one or more advertisements the content information and a current wireless device location and means for communicating to the wireless device a result of the selection such that the one or more advertisements are inserted in the advertisement spaces of the content.

A network device for selecting advertisements for presentation on wireless devices provides yet another related aspect. The network device includes a computer platform including at least one processor and a memory. The network device additionally includes an advertisement selection module stored in the memory and executable by the at least one processor. The advertising selection module includes a content monitor operable to monitor receipt of content information associated with a current temporal interest of a user of a wireless device. The content associated with the content information provides for one or more impending advertisement spaces. The advertising selection module additionally includes a location monitor operable to monitor receipt of location information associated with the wireless device. The advertising selection module also includes an advertisement selector operable to select one or more advertisements for insertion in the one or more impending advertisement spaces based on an association between the one or more advertisements the content information and a current wireless device location. Also the advertising selection module includes an advertisement selection communicator operable to communicate a result of the selection such that the one or more advertisements are inserted in the advertisement spaces of the content.

In one aspect of the network device the content monitor is further operable to monitor receipt of metadata associated with content currently being executed by an application on the wireless device. In other aspects of the network device the content monitor is further operable to monitor receipt of user inputted requests for content that define the current temporal interest of the user of the wireless device.

In some aspects of the network device the content monitor may be further operable to monitor receipt of content information including formatting information associated with the one or more impending advertisement spaces. In such aspects the advertisement selector may be further operable to select one or more advertisements for insertion in the one or more impending advertisement spaces based on an association between the one or more advertisements the content information the current wireless device location and the formatting information. Alternatively the advertisement selection module may further include an advertising formatter operable to format the selected one or more advertisements in accordance with the formatting information associated with the one or more impending advertisement spaces.

In some aspects the network device may further include an advertisement storage operable for storing a plurality of advertisements. In such aspects the advertisement selection communicator is further operable to retrieve the one or more selected advertisements from the advertisement storage and communicate the one or more selected advertisements to the wireless device. In alternate aspects in which the wireless device caches the advertisements or otherwise has access to the advertisements the selection communicator may further be operable to communicate a list of the one or more selected advertisements.

In some aspects the received location information defines the current wireless device location. In alternate aspects the network device may include a location determination module operable to determine the current wireless device location based on the received current wireless device location information.

In some aspects the network device may include an advertisement presentation monitor that is operable to monitor receipt of presentation information that defines the number of presentations for selected advertisements.

A method for selecting advertisements for presentation on a wireless device provides for another aspect. The method includes defining a current temporal user interest determining an impending advertisement space in an application on the wireless device and determining a current location of the wireless device. The method additionally includes selecting at the wireless device one or more advertisements for the impending advertisement space based on an association between the one or more advertisements the current temporal user interest and the current location of the wireless device and presenting the selected one or more advertisements in the advertising space.

In one aspect of the method defining a current temporal user interest further includes defining a current temporal user interest based on content currently being executed by an application on the wireless device. In alternate aspects of the method defining a current temporal user interest includes defining a current temporal user interest based on a user inputted network request for content.

In some aspects the method may additionally include determining the format of the advertising space. In such aspects selecting one or more advertisements may further include selecting at the wireless device one or more advertisements for the impending advertisement space based on an association between the one or more advertisements the current temporal user interest the current location of the wireless device and the format of the advertising space. Alternatively other aspects of the method may provide for formatting the selected one or more advertisements in accordance with the format of the advertising space.

The method may additionally include retrieving the one or more selected advertisements from wireless device storage prior to presentation of the one or more selected advertisements. In alternate aspects the method may include capturing the one or more selected advertisements from a broadcast channel prior to presentation of the one or more selected advertisements. In still further aspects the method may include accessing a communication network to retrieve the one or more selected advertisements from network storage prior to presentation of the one or more selected advertisements.

In some aspects the method may include monitoring the presentation of the one or more selected advertisements to determine a number of presentations and communicating a monitoring result to a network entity.

A related aspect is defined by at least one processor configured to select and present advertisements on a wireless device. The processor includes a first module for defining a current temporal user interest a second module for determining an impending advertisement space in an application on the wireless device and a third module for determining a current location of the wireless device. The processor additionally includes a fourth module for selecting at the wireless device one or more advertisements for the impending advertisement space based on an association between the one or more advertisements the current temporal user interest and the current location of the wireless device and a fifth module for presenting the selected one or more advertisements in the advertising space.

A computer program product that includes a computer readable medium provides for another related aspect. The medium includes at least one instruction for causing a computer to define a current temporal user interest at least one instruction for causing the computer to determine an impending advertisement space in an application on the wireless device and at least one instruction for causing the computer to determine a current location of the wireless device. The medium additionally includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to select at the wireless device one or more advertisements for the impending advertisement space based on an association between the one or more advertisements the current temporal user interest and the current location of the wireless device and at least one instruction for causing the computer to present the selected one or more advertisements in the advertising space.

An apparatus defines yet another related aspect. The apparatus includes means for defining a current temporal user interest means for determining an impending advertisement space in an application on the wireless device and means for determining a current location of the wireless device. The apparatus also includes means for selecting at the wireless device one or more advertisements for the impending advertisement space based on an association between the one or more advertisements the current temporal user interest and the current location of the wireless device and means for presenting the selected one or more advertisements in the advertising space.

Yet another related aspect is provided for by a wireless device for selecting and presenting advertisements in conjunction with currently executing content. The wireless device includes a computer platform including at least one processor and a memory. The wireless device additionally includes a location determination module stored in the memory executable by the at least one processor and operable for determining a current location of the wireless device. The wireless device also includes at least one application stored in the memory executable by the at least one processor and operable to provide for presentation of user requested content such that the user requested content defines a current temporal user interest. The content includes at least one advertisement space.

The wireless device additionally includes an advertisement manager stored in the memory and executable by the at least one processor. The advertisement manager includes an advertisement space monitor operable to monitor for the impending advertisement space in the content an advertisement selector operable to select one or more advertisements for the impending advertisement space based on association between the one or more advertisements the current temporal user interest and the current location of the wireless device and an advertisement presenter operable to present the selected one or more advertisements in the advertising space.

In some aspects of the wireless device the at least one application is further defined as a media application operable to provide presentation of user requested media content. In other aspects of the wireless device the at least one application is further defined as a content search application operable to provide for user inputted requests for network based content.

In alternate aspects of the wireless device the advertisement manager may further include an advertisement format determiner operable to determine the format of the advertising space. In such aspects the advertisement selector may be further operable to select the one or more advertisements for the impending advertisement space based on an association between the one or more advertisements the current temporal user interest the current location of the wireless device and the format of the advertising space. Alternatively the advertisement manager may further include an advertisement formatter operable to format the selected one or more advertisements in accordance with a format of the advertising space.

In some aspects the wireless device may include an advertisement storage operable to cache the one or more advertisements. In other aspects the advertisement selector is further operable to capture the one or more selected advertisements from a broadcast channel prior to presentation of the one or more selected advertisements. In still further aspects the advertisement selector is further operable to access a communication network to retrieve the one or more selected advertisements from network storage prior to presentation of the one or more selected advertisements.

In yet another aspect of the wireless device the advertisement manager may further include an advertisement monitor operable to monitor the number of presentations for a selected advertisement and to communicate a result of the monitoring to a network entity.

Thus present aspects provide systems methods and apparatus for selecting advertisements for presentation on wireless device applications based on the current device location and the current interests of the device user. The current interests of the device user are defined by the application currently being executed on the device and or current user inputted requests for content. For example a current broadcast multicast programming content a current gaming application or the like may define the current interest of the user. In other examples a user may input a network request for content such as a search type request or the like and the inputted information may serve to define the current interest of the user. In this regard present aspects provide for highly targeted advertising that serves to provide advertisements to users based on their current needs which are defined in terms of their current interests and current location.

The present devices apparatus methods computer readable media and process ors now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which aspects of the invention are shown. The devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the aspects set forth herein rather these aspects are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

The various aspects are described herein are in connection with a wireless communication device. A wireless communication device can also be called a subscriber station a subscriber unit mobile station mobile remote station access point remote terminal access terminal user terminal user agent a user device or user equipment. A subscriber station may be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability or other processing device connected to a wireless modem.

Present aspects provide systems methods and apparatus for selecting advertisements for presentation on wireless device applications based on the current device location and the current interests of the device user. The current interests of the device user are defined by the application currently being executed on the device and or current user inputted requests for content. For example a current broadcast multicast programming content a current gaming application or the like may define the current interest of the user. In other examples a user may input a network request for content such as a search type request or the like and the inputted information may serve to define the current interest of the user. In this regard present aspects provide for highly targeted advertising that serves to provide advertisements to users based on their current needs which are defined in terms of their current interests and current location.

In one specific example a user may be watching a real time broadcast of a sporting event while located proximate to various retail centers and or restaurants bars. The real time broadcast programming will generally have identifiable advertisement spaces associated with breaks in the sporting event. Current aspects provide for advertisement selection to take into account the type of content currently being viewed e.g. a sporting event and the current location of the device. The selected advertisements may be associated with sporting good stores in close proximity to the device or restaurants bars in close proximity that may be currently showing the sporting event on large screen televisions. In another specific example a user may be implementing a shopping client on the wireless device that allows for the user to input product service identifying information and in return receive various network based pricing options for purchasing the product service. The pricing content or other content that is returned from the network to the user may include pre configured advertisement spaces for inserting advertisements such as advertisement banners or the like. The selected advertisements may be associated with local retailers in close proximity to the device that are selling the information requested product service.

According to an aspect provides a high level schematic overview of a system for wireless device advertisement selection based on device location and the user s current temporal interest. In the aspect depicted in the selection of the advertisements occurs at the network level. The system comprises a wireless device having an associated user and an advertisement selection system which is in wireless network communication with the wireless device . The advertisement selection system is depicted as a single network device however in most aspects the advertisement selection system may include multiple network devices and or network storage units.

The wireless device implements one of a plurality of applications that provide for presentation of content. In accordance with present aspects the content chosen for presentation by user defines the user s current temporal interest. In this regard the plurality of applications may include one or more content executing applications that execute or present content . For example the content executing application may be media broadcast programming application such as the MediaFLO media application available from QUALCOMM Incorporated of San Diego Calif. In this example content may be broadcast programming available on one of a plurality of broadcast channels. In another example the content executing application may be a gaming application and the associated content is a game. Thus in the described examples the user selected real time broadcast programming and the user selected game defines the user s current temporal interest. In addition the content that is presented in content executing application provides for one or more advertising spaces for insertion of a selected advertisement . The selected advertisements may be audio advertisements video advertisements multimedia advertisements or the like depending on the format of the advertising space. In real time broadcast programming the advertising spaces may be ad hoc defined spaces based on stoppages in the real time event or if the broadcast programming is non real time the advertising spaces may be preconfigured to occur at regular intervals. In other preconfigured content such as gaming content video content and or audio content the advertising spaces may be preconfigured to occur at predetermined intervals.

Additionally the plurality of applications implemented on the wireless device may include content requesting applications that provide for user inputted content requests and return network content in reply to the request. In general terms the content requesting application may serve as a search application that provides for the user inputted content request to be an appropriate searchable item term phrase and or the like as dictated by the specifics of the application. For example the content requesting application may be a mapping application that allows for a user to input an address a desired service or the like and returns directions to the address service or the like. In another example the content requesting application may be a shopping client that allows for a user to input a certain product or service and returns web based product availability options and associated pricing. Thus in the described examples the user inputted content request defines the user s current temporal interest. In addition the content that is presented in content requesting application provides for one or more advertising spaces for insertion of a selected advertisement . The selected advertisements may be audio advertisements video advertisements multimedia advertisements or the like depending on the format of the advertising space. In addition the advertising spaces may be formatted to provide for advertisement banners pop up displays textural scrolling or the like that are generally presented in conjunction with the requested content .

Additionally wireless device includes a location determination module operable for determining the geographic location of the wireless device and communicating the location information to the advertisement selection system . The advertisement selection system may select advertisements for insertion in advertisements spaces respectively based on the current location of the wireless device and the user s current temporal interests. The location determination module may provide for satellite based location determination such as Global Positioning System GPS location determination Galileo GLOSNAS GLObal NAvigation Satellite System and the like. Alternatively the location determination module may provide for network based or terrestrial based location determination such as AFLT Advanced Forward. Link Trilateration or the like and or hybrid location determination that utilizes both satellite based and terrestrial based location determination.

The advertisement selection system includes an advertisement selection module operable to select advertisements for insertion in advertisement spaces based on the current location of the wireless device and the user s current temporal interests. Thus the advertisement selection module includes a content monitor operable to monitor receipt of content information associated content currently being executed on a wireless device and or currently being requested by the wireless device. In this regard the content monitor may receive content information such as metadata related to content being presented by a content executing application . In addition the content information may include information related to an impending advertisement space . The content executing application may be configured to communicate the content information automatically or the content monitor may be configured to request content information from the content executing application . In those aspects in which the current temporal user interest is defined by a user inputted content request associated with a content requesting application the request itself may serve as the content information.

The advertisement selection module additionally includes a location monitor operable to monitor receipt of location information from the wireless device. The location information may be the location of the wireless device or the location information may used by the advertising selection system to determine the location of the wireless device. The location information may be communicated by the wireless device in a separate communication or the location information may be included within the content information communication. For example the content information communicated from the content executing application may identify the content and include the current location information or the user inputted content request associated with the content requesting application may be communicated with current location information.

The advertising selection module also includes an advertising selector operable to select one or more advertisements for an impending advertisement slot based on an association between the one or more advertisements current temporal user interest and the current location of the wireless device. In this regard the advertising selection system or metadata associated with the advertisements may categorize advertisements according to specific geographic regions such that an advertisement may only be selected or may only be prioritized for selection if the wireless device is located within the specified geographic region. In addition to selecting the advertisements based on the location of the wireless device the advertisement selection system will also select advertisements based on the current temporal user interest as defined by the content currently being presented in a content executing application or the content requested by a user inputted content request associated with a content requesting application .

Additionally the advertising selection module includes an advertisement selection communicator operable to communicate the result of the advertisement selection to the corresponding wireless device. The result of the advertisement selection may include the selected advertisements retrieved from network based storage or if the wireless device stores the selected advertisements or otherwise has access to the selected advertisements the result of the advertisement selection may be a list or other identifier of the selected advertisement s .

According to another aspect provides a high level schematic overview of a system for wireless device advertisement selection based on device location and the user s current temporal interest. In the aspect depicted in the selection of the advertisements occurs at the wireless device. Thus the system may be self contained within wireless device or the system may additionally include network device which is in communication with the wireless device through wireless network . The network device may be included in system as a source for the selected advertisements or in those aspects in which the user s current temporal interest is defined as user inputted content request the network device may serve as the source for the requested content . Additionally the network device may be used to assist in the determination of the location of the wireless device.

Similar to the aspect described in relation to the wireless device implements one of a plurality of applications that provide for presentation of content. As previously noted in accordance with present aspects the content chosen for presentation by user defines the user s current temporal interest. In this regard the plurality of application may include one or more content executing applications that execute or present content . In addition the content that is presented in content executing application provides for one or more advertising spaces for insertion of a selected advertisement .

Additionally the plurality of applications implemented on the wireless device may include content requesting applications that provide for user inputted content requests and return network content in reply to the request In addition the content that is presented in content requesting application provides for one or more advertising spaces for insertion of a selected advertisement .

Additionally wireless device may include a location determination module operable for determining the geographic location of the wireless device . The location determination module may provide for satellite based location determination terrestrial or network based location determination or a hybrid location determination including both satellite and terrestrial based location determination.

The wireless device additionally includes an advertisement manager operable for selecting advertisements based on current location of the device and the current temporal user interest and presenting the advertisements in an associated advertisement space. In this regard the advertisement manager includes an advertisement space monitor operable to monitor for an impending advertisement space. In a content executing application non real time content may be preconfigured with advertisement spaces at predetermined intervals. Additionally the content executing application may deliver and present real time content in which advertisements spaces are defined spontaneously based on an identification of break in the event being broadcasted . In either instance the content executing application may notify the advertisement space monitor prior to the impending occurrence of the advertisement space. In a content requesting application receipt of the requested content may prompt notification of the advertisement space monitor of the availability of one or more advertisement spaces within the received content .

The advertisement manager additionally includes advertisement selector operable to select one or more advertisements for an impending advertisement slot based on an association between the one or more advertisements current temporal user interest and the current location of the wireless device. The current temporal user interest may be defined by content currently being presented in content executing application or content as requested by the user inputted content request associated with the content requesting application . In this regard the advertisement selector upon notification of an impending advertisement space may prompt the location determination module to determine the current location of the device or return the last in time location determination result.

The advertisement manager also includes an advertisement presenter operable to present the selected advertisements in the impending advertisement space. Presentation of the advertisements may additionally include retrieval of the advertisements from wireless device storage network storage or tuning the device an appropriate broadcast channel.

Referring to according to another aspect a detailed block diagram is illustrated of an advertisement selection system is provided. The system may comprise at least one of any type of hardware server personal computer mini computer mainframe computer or any computing device either special purpose or general computing device. Further the modules and applications described herein as being operated on or executed by the system may be executed entirely on a single network device or alternatively in other aspects separate servers or computer devices may work in concert to provide data in usable formats to parties and or to provide a separate layer of control in the data flow between the wireless devices and the modules and applications executed by advertisement selection system .

The advertisement selection system includes computer platform that can transmit and receive data across a wired or wireless network and that can execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes a memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes a processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of advertisement selection system and the operability of the system on a wired and or wireless network. For example processing subsystems may allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices and or systems. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with the advertisement selection module optional location determination module and optional advertisement accountability module .

The computer platform further includes a communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of advertisement selection system as well as between the network and wireless device . The communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless communication connection. The communication module is operable to receive content information and location information from wireless devices and transmit the result of the advertisement selection to the wireless device .

The memory of advertisement selection system includes an advertisement selection module operable to select advertisements for insertion in advertisement spaces based on the current location of the wireless device and the user s current temporal interests. The advertisement selection module includes a content monitor operable to monitor receipt of content information associated with content currently being executed on a wireless device and or currently being requested by the wireless device. In one aspect the content monitor may receive content information such as content metadata related to content being presented by a content executing application . In addition the content information may include advertising space information related to an impending advertisement space . The advertising space information may include the formatting information related to the proper format of the impending advertisement space. The content executing application may be configured to communicate the content information automatically or the content monitor may be configured to request content information from the content executing application .

In those aspects in which the current temporal user interest is defined by a user inputted content request associated with a content requesting application the request itself may serve as the content information . In such aspects the content that is returned by the request will define the one or more advertisement spaces and the format for the advertisement spaces.

The advertisement selection module additionally includes a location monitor operable to monitor receipt of location information from the wireless device. The location information may be the location of the wireless device or the location information may used by the advertising selection system to determine the location of the wireless device. As such the advertisement selection system may optionally include a location determination module that is operable to implement a location routine to determine the location of the wireless device based on the location information received from the wireless device. The location routine may be consistent with the location information and may be any known or future known satellite based terrestrial based or hybrid location determination routine. The location information may be communicated by the wireless device in a separate communication or the location information may be included within the content information communication. For example the content information communicated from the content executing application may identify the content and include the current location information or the user inputted content request associated with the content requesting application may be communicated with current location information.

The advertising selection module also includes an advertising selector operable to select one or more advertisements for an impending advertisement slot based on an association between the one or more advertisements current temporal user interest and the current location of the wireless device. In this regard the metadata associated with the advertisements may categorize advertisements according to specific geographic regions such that an advertisement may only be selected or may only be prioritized for selection if the wireless device is located within the specified geographic region. In addition to selecting the advertisements based on the location of the wireless device the advertisement selector will also select advertisements based on the current temporal user interest as defined by the content currently being presented in a content executing application or the content requested by a user inputted content request associated with a content requesting application .

In alternate aspects the advertisement selector may additionally select advertisements based on the format information associated with an advertisement space. In this regard only advertisements that correspond to the stated format of the advertisement space are considered for selection. Format information may include the type of advertisement e.g. audio video multimedia banner scroll pop up and the like the length or size of the advertisement space and the like. In those aspects in which the selection of the advertisement is not based on formatting information the system may optionally include an advertisement formatter operable to properly format the advertisement according to the advertisement format information .

Additionally the advertising selection module includes an advertisement selection communicator operable to communicate the result of the advertisement selection to the corresponding wireless device. The result of the advertisement selection may include the selected advertisements retrieved from optional network based advertisement storage or if the wireless device stores the selected advertisements or otherwise has access to the selected advertisements the result of the advertisement selection may be an advertisement list or other identifier of the selected advertisement s .

Optionally the advertisement selection system may include an advertisement accountability monitor operable to monitor receipt of advertisement presentation information from the wireless devices. The presentation information may include the number of presentations of selected advertisements that have occurred at the wireless device the number of click throughs i.e. the number of the times a user accesses or otherwise engages the advertisement for additional information or the like. The presentation information may then be used by the advertisement service provider to properly bill the advertiser or otherwise monitor the users access to the advertisements.

Referring to according to another aspect a detailed block diagram is illustrated of a wireless device that includes a self contained advertisement selection based on device location and current temporal user interest. The wireless device may include any type of computerized communication device such as cellular telephone Personal Digital Assistant PDA two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The present apparatus and methods for sharing locating and attempting recovery of a wireless communication device can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless communication device or wireless computer module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals desktop computers or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The wireless communication device includes computer platform that can transmit data across a wireless network and that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs such as communication module and advertising manager stored in the memory of wireless device . API may be a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of wireless device and the operability of the wireless device on a wireless network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. In aspects in which the wireless device is defined as a cellular telephone the communications processor may additionally include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure handset power management digital signal processor messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc all of which are not individually depicted in for the sake of clarity .

For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with the communication module the content executing application the content requesting application the location determination module and the advertisement manager . For example processing subsystems may include media players associated with the content executing application locating and tracking devices applications that are implemented in conjunction with the location determination module and the like.

The memory of computer platform also includes one of a plurality of applications that provide for presentation of content. In accordance with present aspects the content chosen for presentation defines the user s current temporal interest. In this regard the plurality of application may include one or more content executing applications that execute or present content . For example the content executing application may be media broadcast pro application. In this example content may be broadcast programming available on one of a plurality of broadcast channels. In another example the content executing application may be a gaming application and the associated content is a game. Thus in the described examples the user selected real time broadcast programming and the user selected game defines the user s current temporal interest. In addition the content that is presented in content executing application provides for one or more advertising spaces for insertion of a selected advertisement . The selected advertisements may be audio advertisements video advertisements multimedia advertisements or the like depending on the format of the advertising space. In real time broadcast programming the advertising spaces may be ad hoc defined spaces based on stoppages in the real time event or if the broadcast programming is non real time the advertising spaces may be preconfigured to occur at predetermined intervals. In other preconfigured content such as gaming content video content and or audio content the advertising spaces may be preconfigured to occur at predetermined intervals or may be configured to occur randomly. The content has associated metadata that defines the characteristics of the content and is used to select advertisements based on association between advertisement metadata and the content metadata .

Additionally the plurality of applications implemented on the wireless device may include one or more content requesting applications that provide for user inputted content requests and return network content in reply to the request. In general terms the content requesting application may serve as a search application that provides for the user inputted content request to be an appropriate searchable item term phrase and or the like as dictated by the specifics of the application. Thus the user inputted content request defines the user s current temporal interest. In addition the content that is presented in content requesting application provides for one or more advertising spaces for insertion of a selected advertisement . The selected advertisements may be audio advertisements video advertisements multimedia advertisements or the like depending on the format of the advertising space. In addition the advertising spaces may be formatted to provide for advertisement banners pop up displays textural scrolling or the like that are generally presented in conjunction with the requested content . The content has associated metadata that defines the characteristics of the content and is used to select advertisements based on association between advertisement metadata and the content metadata .

Additionally the memory of wireless device includes a location determination module operable for determining the geographic location of the wireless device. The advertisement manager will select advertisements for insertion in advertisements spaces respectively based on the current location of the wireless device and the user s current temporal interests. The location determination module may provide for satellite based location determination such as Global Positioning System GPS location determination Galileo GLOSNAS GLObal NAvigation Satellite System and the like. Alternatively the location determination module may provide for network based or terrestrial based location determination such as AFLT Advanced Forward. Link Trilateration or the like and or hybrid location determination that utilizes both satellite based and terrestrial based location determination.

The wireless device additionally includes an advertisement manager operable for selecting advertisements based on current location of the device and the current temporal user interest and presenting the advertisements in an associated advertisement space. In this regard the advertisement manager includes an advertisement space monitor operable to monitor for an impending advertisement space. In a content executing application non real time content may be preconfigured with advertisement spaces at predetermined intervals. Additionally the content executing application may deliver and present real time content in which advertisements spaces are defined spontaneously based on identification of break in the event being broadcasted. In either instance the content executing application may notify the advertisement space monitor prior to the impending occurrence of the advertisement space. In a content requesting application receipt of the requested content may prompt notification of the advertisement space monitor of the availability of one or more advertisement spaces within the received content .

The advertisement manager may optionally include an advertisement format determiner operable to determine the format of the advertisement space. In this regard the format determiner may determine the type size length and the like of the advertisement that may be selected for insertion in the impending advertisement space. Alternatively the format of the advertisement space may be defined by the advertisement space notification.

The advertisement manager additionally includes advertisement selector operable to select one or more advertisements for an impending advertisement slot based on an association between the one or more advertisements current temporal user interest and the current location of the wireless device. The current temporal user interest may be defined by content currently being presented in content executing application or content as requested by the user inputted content request associated with the content requesting application . In this regard the advertisement selector upon notification of an impending advertisement space may prompt the location determination module to determine the current location of the device or return the last in time location determination result.

In alternate aspects the advertisement selector may select one or more advertisements based on an additional association between the advertisements and the format of the advertisement space. In this regard only the advertisements that meet the format criteria and in addition meet the location criteria and the current temporal user interest criteria may be considered for selection. In those aspects in which an advertisement format is not used as selection criteria the advertisement manager may include an optional advertisement formatter operable to format the selected advertisements into the format dictated by the impending advertisement space.

The advertisement manager also includes an advertisement presenter operable to present the selected advertisements in the impending advertisement space. Presentation of the advertisements may additionally include retrieval of the advertisements from wireless device storage such as optional advertisement cache . Alternatively if the wireless device does not include an advertisement cache or the cache does not currently store the selected advertisement the advertisement presenter may retrieve the selected advertisements from network storage. In other aspects the advertisement presenter may present advertisements by tuning the device to an appropriate broadcast channel that currently broadcasts the selected advertisements.

Computer platform additionally includes communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the wireless communication device as well as between the wireless device and wireless network . In described aspects the communication module enables transmission of user inputted content requests and receipt of content in reply to the requests . In addition communication module enables receipt of broadcast content including advertisements . The communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless network communication connection.

Additionally wireless device has input mechanism for generating inputs into communication device and output mechanism for generating information for consumption by the user of the communication device. For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone etc. In certain aspects the input mechanisms provide for user input to interface with an application such as content executing application and or content requesting application . Further for example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. In the illustrated aspects the output mechanism may include a display operable to present content and advertisements associated with the content.

At Event the network system selects one or more advertisements for insertion in the one or more impending advertisement spaces. The selection of the advertisements is based on an association between the one or more advertisements the content information and the current location of the wireless device. In this regard metadata associated with the advertisements defines certain categories to which the advertisement pertains to such as product service type user demographics and the like. Similarly the metadata defines one or more geographic regions to which the advertisement pertains such as the geographic area proximate a retail advertisers geographic location or the like. Thus selection of the advertisements may involve a match exact or non exact between metadata associated with the advertisement metadata associated with the content being currently executed or currently requested and the current location of the device. In alternate aspects the selection of the advertisements may additionally be based on the required format of the advertisement as dictated by the advertisement space.

At Event the network system communicates to the wireless device a result of the selection such that the one or more advertisements are inserted in the impending advertisement spaces in the related content. In one aspect communicating a result may include retrieving the selected advertisements from network storage and communicating the selected advertisements to the wireless device. In another aspect communicating the result may include retrieving the selected advertisements from network storage inserting the advertisements in requested content and communicating the requested content with inserted advertisements to the wireless device. In other aspects in which the wireless device caches advertisements or otherwise has access to advertisements communicating the result may include communicating a list prioritized or non prioritized of selected advertisements suitable for insertion in the impending advertisement space.

At Event an impending advertisement space is determined in content associated with an application being executed on the wireless device. For example an impending advertisement space may be determined in media content being executed on the device such as real time broadcast content non real time broadcast content video content audio content multimedia content gaming content or the like. Additionally receipt of requested content may provided for determination of an unoccupied advertisement space located in the returned content which is deemed as an impending advertisement space requiring selection of an advertisement.

At Event a current location of the wireless device is determined. The current location may be determined by using an appropriate satellite based location determination mechanism a terrestrial or network based location determination mechanism or a hybrid mechanism utilizing both satellite based and terrestrial based location determination. Additionally determination of an impending advertisement space may prompt a location fix or the advertisement selection process may be configured to use the last in time fix associated with another application requiring location information as the most current location of the device.

At Event one or more advertisements are selected for the impending advertisement spaces. The selection of the advertisements is based on an association between the one or more advertisements the current temporal user interest and the current location of the wireless device. In this regard metadata associated with the advertisements defines certain categories to which the advertisement pertains to such as product service type user demographics and the like. Similarly the metadata defines one or more geographic regions to which the advertisement pertains such as the geographic area proximate a retail advertisers geographic location or the like. Thus selection of the advertisements may involve a match exact or non exact between metadata associated with the advertisement the current temporal user interest e.g. metadata associated with the content being currently executed or currently requested and the current location of the device. In alternate aspects the selection of the advertisements may additionally be based on the required format of the advertisement as dictated by the advertisement space.

At Event the selected one or more advertisements are presented in the impending advertisement space. Presentation of the selected advertisements may include retrieving the advertisements from local wireless device storage and or from network based storage. Alternatively presentation of the selected advertisements may include tuning a broadcast to a channel associated with the selected advertisements.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate army FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

Thus present aspects provide systems methods and apparatus for selecting advertisements for presentation on wireless device applications based on the current device location and the current interests of the device user. The current interests of the device user are defined by the application currently being executed on the device and or current user inputted requests for content. In this regard present aspects provide for highly targeted advertising that serves to provide advertisements to users based on their current needs which are defined in terms of their current interests and current location.

Many modifications and other aspects will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the aspect is not to be limited to the specific aspects disclosed and that modifications and other aspects are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

