---

title: System and method for checking security of PC
abstract: Provided are a system and method for checking the security of a personal computer (PC). The system and method automatically check security to protect a PC from computer hacking, viruses, worms, Trojan horses, etc., and inform or cure a vulnerable point. The system and method automatically check and modify all the security check items so that a user who may not have professional computer knowledge can readily cope with a cyber attack, and describe the vulnerable point and the result of the cure to the user with ease. Therefore, the system and method can maintain a PC in its up-to-date state to prevent damage from a cyber attack, and minimize damage from a cyber threat against the main system and service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07937765&OS=07937765&RS=07937765
owner: Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute
number: 07937765
owner_city: Daejeon
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20071108
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of Korean Patent Application Nos. 2006 110496 filed Nov. 9 2006 and 2007 62323 filed Jun. 25 2007 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to a system and method for checking the security of a personal computer PC and more particularly to a PC security checking system and method for automatically checking a counterplan that a user can run to protect his her PC from hacking viruses worms Trojan horses etc. informing the result to the user while automatically setting a required configuration and thereby preventing damage from a cyber attack.

Lately with the rapid development of information and communication technology such as the Internet etc. cyber threats of computer hacking viruses worms Trojan horses etc. are on the increase. Thus it has become natural to run a counterplan for protecting a PC by installing anti virus programs firewalls and so on. However important tasks such as up to date maintenance of the state of the programs periodic checking of the programs and upgrading with the most up to date security patches for the programs that must be continuously performed after installation may not be properly conducted because general users may not be able to easily understand information that must be configured to increase the security of a PC.

In other words general users may not be able to recognize the necessity and effect of various configurations. To solve the problem it is necessary to establish a reference for each configuration. Therefore a systematic method is required which establishes a PC security configuration reference for a safe computing environment checks whether or not a configuration has been set on the basis of the reference and thereby protects a PC from an unknown threat.

Currently various programs and guidelines for increasing the security of a PC have been suggested but there is no method of continuously managing them checking or modifying the configurations of the programs and guidelines.

The present invention is directed to a personal computer PC security checking system and method for automatically checking a counterplan that a user can run to protect his her PC from hacking viruses worms Trojan horses etc. informing the result to the user while automatically setting a required configuration and thereby preventing damage from a cyber attack.

One aspect of the present invention provides a system for checking security of a PC the system comprising a user interface and graphic user interface GUI management module for managing an input of a user and controlling a screen a check reference management module in cooperation with the user interface and GUI management module for displaying check reference information on the screen and allowing the user to change the check reference information an automatic check module for comparing the check reference information with system information to generate check result information and a check result management module for displaying the check result information through the user interface and GUI management module and automatically correcting either an item selected by the user or all items.

Another aspect of the present invention provides a method of checking security of a PC the method comprising the steps of a storing check reference information b generating and storing log information after starting an automatic check c checking whether or not the check reference information needs to be updated with up to date information and updating the check reference information d collecting system information from registry information file information and system configuration information e comparing the collected system information with the check reference information and generating check result information f generating history information on the basis of the log information and the check result information and g displaying and automatically correcting the check result information.

The system and method for checking the security of a PC according to the present invention have been developed to be compatible with a Windows platform and may be installed to operate in a local PC.

The user may check or change the check reference through the check reference management module. The check reference may be set to a default value whose safety is verified on the basis of a research result or may otherwise be changed by the user.

The automatic check module actually performs an automatic check whereby a log generation module is executed to record a required item as a log during operation up to date information a check date information on Windows security patch distribution etc. is retrieved an up to date information update module for updating the check reference information is executed and then the system information is collected and compared with the check reference information. The result of the automatic check is recorded as the check result information and the log generation module is terminated thereby terminating the operation of the automatic check module.

The check result management module summarizes and displays an up to date security check result using the check result information automatically corrects check items to secure the PC and displays or prints a statistic of the check result on the screen.

Hereinafter exemplary embodiments of the present invention will be described in detail. However the present invention is not limited to the embodiments disclosed below but can be implemented in various forms. The following embodiments are described in order to enable those of ordinary skill in the art to embody and practice the present invention.

As illustrated in the system for automatically checking the security of a PC according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention comprises a user interface and graphic user interface GUI management module a check reference management module an automatic check module an up to date information update module a system information collection module a log generation module a history generation module a check result management module an automatic correction module and a statistic management module .

The user interface and GUI management module is executed upon start of the system and processes an input from a user or displays a screen according to an operation state.

The check reference management module reads and displays check reference information so that the user can confirm a check reference. The check reference information generally indicates recommended values for safely setting each security configuration that can be checked by the PC security check system according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. The check reference information is compared with system information collected by the system information collection module and the user may change it to strengthen or weaken a security reference as occasion demands.

The automatic check module generates check result information on the basis of the check reference information and controls operation of the up to date information update module the system information collection module the log generation module and the history generation module .

The up to date information update module reads the check reference information and retrieves the up to date information. When the up to date information exists the up to date information update module updates the check reference information using the up to date information and is terminated according to the control of the automatic check module .

The system information collection module collects system information from return values of a registry query a Windows Management Instrumentation WMI query and a Win32 Application Programming Interface API and is terminated according to the control of the automatic check module . The automatic check module compares the collected system information with the read check reference information and determines whether or not the system information complies with the check reference information thereby generating check result information based on the determination. The system information generally indicates entire values currently having been set in respective security configurations that can be obtained as a return value of the registry query the WMI query or the Win32 API by the system information collection module for comparison with the check reference information. The automatic check module compares the system information with the check reference information and thereby the check result information indicates whether or not the system information has been safely configured. The log generation module generates log information and continuously records the log information until the automatic check module stops the log generation module . The log information may generally indicate a start time and a shutdown time of the PC security check system according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention and a name a value and a generation time which includes a date of check reference information changed by the check reference management module information updated by the up to date information update module and information corrected by the automatic correction module .

The history generation module generates history information and is terminated according to the control of the automatic check module . The history information may include data obtained by arranging according to date the check result information generated by the automatic check module and the log information generated by the log generation module . In other words the history information includes the names and number of security configurations that do not comply with the check reference information.

The check result management module displays summarized information of the up to date check result on a screen on the basis of the check result information generated by the system information collection module and controls operation of the automatic correction module and the statistic management module .

The automatic correction module automatically corrects items not complying with the check reference to comply with the same and the statistic management module displays statistics on the screen in the form of a graph or table. The statistics may be about the security configurations that have not complied with the check reference information for a period of a previous one week one month 6 months and one year or the number of the security configurations.

The user may check the summarized information and select automatic correction of an item display of statistics print of a screen display of a history shutdown and so on. According to the selection of the user the automatic correction module or the statistic management module may perform its operation. A method of checking the security of a PC in a system having the above described constitution according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention will now be described below with reference to .

As illustrated in when the check reference management module is executed by an input of a user through the user interface and GUI management module the check reference management module reads check reference information step and displays the information on a screen so that the user can confirm the check reference step . Subsequently the user confirms the check reference and may immediately terminated a system or change a check reference value steps to . The changed check reference value is stored in a check reference information storage step .

As illustrated in when the automatic check module is executed by an input of a user through the user interface and GUI management module the automatic check module first drives the log generation module step . Subsequently the log generation module generates log information step . The automatic check module continuously records the log information until it stops the log generation module . Meanwhile the automatic check module starts the up to date information update module upon start of the log generation module step .

The up to date information update module reads check reference information step and retrieves the up to date information step . For example the up to date information may indicate distribution of a new Windows security patch which can be retrieved online from a distribution site e.g. www.microsoft.com for the corresponding program and so on. When there exists the up to date information required for an update step the up to date information update module stores the up to date information in a check reference information storage step and then is stopped by the automatic check module step . When the up to date information update module is stopped the automatic check module reads the check reference information step and starts the system information collection module step .

The system information collection module collects system information from return values of a registry query a WMI query and a Win32 API step and is stopped by the automatic check module step . The automatic check module compares the collected system information with the read check reference information step . The automatic check module generates check result information on whether or not the system information complies with the check reference information step and stops the log generation module step . Subsequently the automatic check module executes the history generation module step to generate history information step and terminates its own operation.

As illustrated in when the check result management module is executed by an input of a user through the user interface and GUI management module the check result management module reads check result information step and displays summarized information of the up to date check result on a screen step .

Subsequently the user confirms the summarized information selects automatic correction of an item display of statistics print of a screen display of a history shutdown etc. to execute the automatic correction module step execute the statistic management module step print a screen step display a history step or stop the check result management module .

As described above the system and method for checking the security of a PC according to the present invention allow a user to readily check the state of a PC and configure a required item thereby allowing the user to immediately cope with a cyber threat. Therefore it is possible to prevent or minimize damage from computer hacking viruses worms Trojan horses and so on.

In addition a clear basis of a check reference is suggested to a user and flexible security management is allowed because the basis can be changed by the user when necessary. Also post maintenance is facilitated because modules are classified according to their functions. In particular it is easy to increase items that can be checked. It is possible to perform safer and more accurate checking using a registry to collect system information for security check because the registry is difficult to access from a remote location and not likely to be modified by an external attack.

In addition it is possible to automatically receive integrated service even when a user may not have knowledge of computers. The system and method prevent security problems and also manage a fault thereby keeping a PC in its optimum state. Further the system and method can be used by a user having knowledge of security and also allow a user having knowledge of security to change a check reference thereby providing a more powerful function to the user. Furthermore since history information is displayed it is possible to check the step specific security state of a computer depending on time at a glance.

While the invention has been shown and described with reference to certain exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

