---

title: Data-path dynamic link maintenance in mobile ad hoc networks
abstract: The method and mobile ad hoc network include the use of a plurality of mobile nodes. A main communication path is established from a source node through intermediate nodes to a destination node. Alternative communication paths are established among intermediate nodes defined as standby nodes to define a multipath communication pathway from the source node to the destination node. The nodes include a controller and a wireless communications device cooperating therewith. Link quality is monitored by at least one intermediate node to neighboring nodes in the multipath communication pathway, and the main communication path is reconfigured within the multipath communication pathway to at least one of the alternative communication paths based upon monitored link quality.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08654627&OS=08654627&RS=08654627
owner: Harris Corporation
number: 08654627
owner_city: Melbourne
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070103
---
The present invention relates to the field of communication networks and more particularly to mobile ad hoc wireless networks and related methods.

Wireless networks have experienced increased development in the past decade. One of the most rapidly developing areas is mobile ad hoc networks. Physically a mobile ad hoc network includes a number of geographically distributed potentially mobile nodes wirelessly connected by one or more radio frequency channels. Compared with other type of networks such as cellular networks or satellite networks the most distinctive feature of mobile ad hoc networks is the lack of any fixed infrastructure. The network is formed of mobile nodes only and a network is created on the fly as the nodes transmit to or receive from other nodes. The network does not in general depend on a particular node and dynamically adjusts as some nodes join or others leave the network.

In a hostile environment where a fixed communication infrastructure is unreliable or unavailable such as in a battle field or in a natural disaster area struck by earthquake or hurricane an ad hoc network can be quickly deployed and provide much needed communications. While the military is still a major driving force behind the development of these networks ad hoc networks are quickly finding new applications in civilian or commercial areas. Ad hoc networks will allow people to exchange data in the field or in a class room without using any network structure except the one they create by simply turning on their computers or PDAs.

As wireless communication increasingly permeates everyday life new applications for mobile ad hoc networks will continue to emerge and become an important part of the communication structure. Mobile ad hoc networks pose serious challenges to the designers. Due to the lack of a fixed infrastructure nodes must self organize and reconfigure as they move join or leave the network. All nodes could potentially be functionally identical and there may not be any natural hierarchy or central controller in the network. Many network controlling functions are distributed among the nodes. Nodes are often powered by batteries and have limited communication and computation capabilities. The bandwidth of the system is usually limited. The distance between two nodes often exceeds the radio transmission range and a transmission has to be relayed by other nodes before reaching its destination. Consequently a network has a multihop topology and this topology changes as the nodes move around.

The Mobile Ad Hoc Networks MANET working group of the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF has been actively evaluating and standardizing routing including multicasting protocols. Because the network topology changes arbitrarily as the nodes move information is subject to becoming obsolete and different nodes often have different views of the network both in time information may be outdated at some nodes but current at others and in space a node may only know the network topology in its neighborhood usually not far away from itself .

A routing protocol may need to adapt to frequent topology changes and with less accurate information. Because of these unique requirements routing in these networks is very different from others. Gathering fresh information about the entire network is often costly and impractical. Many routing protocols are reactive on demand protocols they collect routing information only when necessary and to destinations they need routes to and do not generally maintain unused routes after some period of time. This way the routing overhead is greatly reduced compared to pro active protocols which maintain routes to all destinations at all times. It is important for a protocol to be adaptive. Ad hoc On demand Distance Vector AODV Dynamic Source Routing DSR and Temporally Ordered Routing Algorithm TORA are representative of on demand routing protocols presented at the MANET working group.

Examples of other various routing protocols include Destination Sequenced Distance Vector DSDV routing which is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 412 654 to Perkins and Zone Routing Protocol ZRP which is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 304 556 to Haas. ZRP is a hybrid protocol using both proactive and reactive approaches based upon distance from a source node.

These conventional routing protocols use a best effort approach in selecting a route from the source node to the destination node. Typically the number of hops is the main criteria metric in such a best effort approach. In other words the route with the least amount of hops is selected as the transmission route.

In a dynamic ad hoc network system path stability is important because links in the path are likely to break. Current ad hoc mechanisms switch entire paths upon route failures. A broken path results in lost time to switch or re establish new paths. Maintenance of multiple paths improves the path switching reaction time but it is done at the complete path level and there is still time lost in propagating the new routing information to all nodes in the path.

Using the routing protocols to address the sudden lost of a data path is a typical approach. Most of the existing approaches are in the domain of the routing level not the data path level. Typical ad hoc network routing protocols in some way address the routing maintenance issue. When a route is broken it will be detected by a maintenance mechanism and a new route will be created. Some routing protocols will try to provide routing updates in a periodical fashion regardless if the routes are being used or not. Unfortunately routing updates use a lot of the bandwidth resource and there is a significant latency for the route convergence.

Some routing protocols will create or re discover a route only if it is on demand. This type of protocol tends to have higher latency in the initial route setup but it is more bandwidth efficient. It may also provide a route maintenance mechanism for local repair of an active used route. Predictive routing is a higher level of intelligence which schedules and directs the lower layer routing protocols to actively prepare routes by using historical and statistical analysis. It is in fact a high level tuning of the lower layer routing protocols.

Multiple path approaches exist such as Ad hoc On demand Multipath Distance Vector AOMDV Routing Ad hoc On Demand Distance Vector Multipath AODVM Node Disjoint Multipath Routing NDMR Multipath DSR MP DSR and Split Multipath Routing SMR . These protocols use different routing mechanisms to setup the multiple paths. Stability is achieved by using one path until it is broken then shifting to another one. Detecting the break down of a path is required but a new path is immediately available. All paths may be used and traffic may be shared for load balancing. Duplicate data may be sent on some paths. Bandwidth is wasted but better fault tolerance is achieved with a reduced reaction time.

The link breaking reaction time is still not minimal. There is a need for an approach that reduces link outage time and enhances the overall effectiveness of multipath routing.

In view of the foregoing background it is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a multipath routing approach that reduces link outage time and enhances the overall effectiveness of multipath routing by monitoring and or predicting link quality.

This and other objects features and advantages in accordance with an example of the present invention are provided by a mobile ad hoc network including a plurality of mobile nodes comprising a source node a destination node and a plurality of intermediate nodes therebetween configured to establish a main communications path and at least one alternative communication path thereby defining a multipath communication pathway between the source node and the destination node. At least one of the intermediate nodes includes a controller and a wireless communications device cooperating therewith to monitor link quality to neighboring nodes and to reconfigure the main communication path to the at least one alternative communication path based upon the monitored link quality.

The source node may include a controller having a route discovery unit to establish the main communication path through intermediate nodes to the destination node based on a routing protocol and to establish the alternative communication paths through intermediate nodes defined as standby nodes that are positioned an n hop e.g. 1 hop distance from nodes of the main communication path. The at least one intermediate node may include a monitoring unit to monitor link quality to neighboring nodes and a data distribution unit to distribute data along the multipath communication pathway to the destination node.

The monitoring unit may request a signal to noise ratio SNR from neighboring nodes and or estimate the bit error rate BER to neighboring nodes. The monitoring unit may predict link quality based upon at least one of a signal to noise ratio SNR and a bit error rate BER to neighboring nodes.

The data distribution unit may distribute data to the destination node using both the corresponding main communication path and at least one of the alternative communication paths. Also the data distribution unit preferably distributes data to the destination node using a time division multiple access TDMA protocol. The route discovery unit may establish the multipath communication pathways to obtain unidirectional and or bidirectional communication.

Other objects features and advantages in accordance with an example of the present invention are provided by a mobile node for a mobile ad hoc network comprising a plurality of mobile nodes including a source node a destination node and a plurality of intermediate nodes therebetween configured to establish a main communications path and at least one alternative communication path thereby defining a multipath communication pathway between the source node and the destination node. The mobile node includes a controller and a wireless communications device cooperating therewith to monitor link quality to neighboring nodes and to reconfigure the main communication path to the at least one alternative communication path based upon the monitored link quality.

The controller may include a route discovery unit to establish main communication paths based on a routing protocol and to establish alternative communication paths through intermediate nodes defined as standby nodes that are positioned an n hop e.g. 1 hop distance from nodes of respective main communication paths. A monitoring unit may be included to monitor link quality to neighboring nodes and a data distribution unit may distribute data along the multipath communication pathway.

Other objects features and advantages in accordance with an example of the present invention are provided by a method for operating a mobile ad hoc network comprising a plurality of mobile nodes including a source node a destination node and a plurality of intermediate nodes therebetween configured to establish a main communications path and at least one alternative communication path thereby defining a multipath communication pathway between the source node and the destination node. Again each of the nodes may include a controller and a wireless communications device cooperating therewith. The method includes operating at least one of the intermediate nodes to monitor link quality to neighboring nodes and operating the at least one intermediate node to reconfigure the main communication path to the at least one alternative communication path based upon the monitored link quality.

The method may also include operating the source node to establish the main communication path through intermediate nodes to the destination node based on a routing protocol and to establish the alternative communication paths through intermediate nodes defined as standby nodes that are positioned an n hop e.g. 1 hop distance from nodes of the main communication path.

Monitoring link quality may include requesting a signal to noise ratio SNR from neighboring nodes and or estimating the bit error rate BER to neighboring nodes. Monitoring link quality may include predicting link quality based upon at least one of a signal to noise ratio SNR and a bit error rate BER to neighboring nodes.

The method may include distributing or forwarding data from the source node to the destination node using the main communication path and or using both the main communication path and at least one of the alternative communication paths. Data may be forwarded from the source node to the destination node using a time division multiple access TDMA protocol and the main communication path may be established to obtain one of unidirectional and bidirectional communication.

The present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout and prime notation is used to indicate similar elements in alternative embodiments.

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art portions of the present invention may be embodied as a method data processing system or computer program product. Accordingly these portions of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. Furthermore portions of the present invention may be a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer readable program code on the medium. Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized including but not limited to static and dynamic storage devices hard disks optical storage devices and magnetic storage devices.

The present invention is described below with reference to flowchart illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to an embodiment of the invention. It will be understood that blocks of the illustrations and combinations of blocks in the illustrations can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus implement the functions specified in the block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory result in an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

Although the present invention may be applicable to any multipath routing approach in accordance with non limiting examples of the present invention a tube i.e. trellis of multiple communication paths i.e. also termed multipaths may be established along a primary or main communication path. This structure is similar to a tube or trellis of nodes and follows the primary or main communication path of nodes. There is a special property of the nodes in this tube or trellis of multiple communication paths i.e. multipaths TOMP for a fully disjoint FD and partial disjoint PD system. The nodes are aware of the transmission of the neighboring nodes in the TOMP. It should be understood that throughout this description the acronym TOMP refers to the tube or trellis of multiple communication paths formed by the nodes in the main communication path from the source to the destination through intermediate nodes and includes the neighboring i.e. standby nodes located an n hop distance. Duplicated transmission thus may not be required to afford fault tolerance. This can be achieved in TDMA systems because the transmissions are sequential.

The construction of the TOMP is dynamic and distributed to the nodes along the primary or main communication path. If the main communication path is broken another link in the TOMP can automatically replace the broken link and become the new main communication path.

In the TOMP there is no limitation on the fully disjoint or partial disjoint multi paths. The nodes in the TOMP are dynamically obtained and locally maintained. The main communication path can be dynamically changed inside the tube. It can be migrated to adapt to new changes in the topology. The bandwidth usage in the TOMP can be equivalent to that of the single path and at the same time achieving the capability of fault tolerance. The use of TOMP for fault tolerance can be easily configured to support load balancing.

The TOMP can be a mechanism that can support uninterrupted voice service in unstable networks such as ad hoc networks with link impairments because of fast and slow fading and radio movements. It is simple to implement at a low cost.

For purposes of description some background information of coding interleaving and an exemplary wireless mobile radio communications system that includes ad hoc capability and can be modified for use with the system and method of the present invention is now set forth with regard to . An example of a radio that could be used with such system and method is a Falcon III radio manufactured and sold by Harris Corporation of Melbourne Fla. which can be modified for use with mobile ad hoc networks MANET s . It should be understood that different radios can be used including software defined radios that can be typically implemented with relatively standard processor and hardware components. One particular class of software radio is the Joint Tactical Radio JTR which includes relatively standard radio and processing hardware along with any appropriate waveform software modules to implement the communication waveforms a radio will use. JTR radios also use operating system software that conforms with the software communications architecture SCA specification see www.jtrs.saalt.mil which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The SCA is an open architecture framework that specifies how hardware and software components are to interoperate so that different manufacturers and developers can readily integrate the respective components into a single device.

The Joint Tactical Radio System JTRS Software Component Architecture SCA defines a set of interfaces and protocols often based on the Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA for implementing a Software Defined Radio SDR . In part JTRS and its SCA are used with a family of software re programmable radios. As such the SCA is a specific set of rules methods and design criteria for implementing software re programmable digital radios.

The JTRS SCA specification is published by the JTRS Joint Program Office JPO . The JTRS SCA has been structured to provide for portability of applications software between different JTRS SCA implementations leverage commercial standards to reduce development cost reduce development time of new waveforms through the ability to reuse design modules and build on evolving commercial frameworks and architectures.

The JTRS SCA is not a system specification as it is intended to be implementation independent but a set of rules that constrain the design of systems to achieve desired JTRS objectives. The software framework of the JTRS SCA defines the Operating Environment OF and specifies the services and interfaces that applications use from that environment. The SCA OE comprises a Core Framework CF a CORBA middleware and an Operating System OS based on the Portable Operating System Interface POSIX with associated board support packages. The JTRS SCA also provides a building block structure defined in the API Supplement for defining application programming interfaces APIs between application software components.

The JTRS SCA Core Framework CF is an architectural concept defining the essential core set of open software Interfaces and Profiles that provide for the deployment management interconnection and intercommunication of software application components in embedded distributed computing communication systems. Interfaces may be defined in the JTRS SCA Specification. However developers may implement some of them some may be implemented by non core applications i.e. waveforms etc. and some may be implemented by hardware device providers.

For purposes of description only a brief description of an example of a communications system that would benefit from the present invention is described relative to a non limiting example shown in . This high level block diagram of a communications system includes a base station segment and wireless message terminals that could be modified for use with the present invention. The base station segment includes a VHF radio and HF radio that communicate and transmit voice or data over a wireless link to a VHF net or HF net each which include a number of respective VHF radios and HF radios and personal computer workstations connected to the radios . Ad hoc communication networks are interoperative with the various components as illustrated. Thus it should be understood that the HF or VHF networks include HF and VHF net segments that are infrastructure less and operative as the ad hoc communications network. Although UHF radios and net segments are not illustrated these could be included.

The HF radio can include a demodulator circuit and appropriate convolutional encoder circuit block interleaver data randomizer circuit data and framing circuit modulation circuit matched filter circuit block or symbol equalizer circuit with an appropriate clamping device deinterleaver and decoder circuit modem and power adaptation circuit as non limiting examples. These and other circuits operate to perform any functions necessary for the present invention as well as other functions suggested by those skilled in the art. Other illustrated radios including all VHF mobile radios and transmitting and receiving stations can have similar functional circuits.

The base station segment includes a landline connection to a public switched telephone network PSTN which connects to a PABX . A satellite interface such as a satellite ground station connects to the PABX which connects to processors forming wireless gateways These interconnect to the VHF radio or HF radio respectively. The processors are connected through a local area network to the PABX and e mail clients . The radios include appropriate signal generators and modulators.

An Ethernet TCP IP local area network could operate as a radio mail server. E mail messages could be sent over radio links and local air networks using STANAG 5066 as second generation protocols waveforms the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and of course preferably with the third generation interoperability standard STANAG 4538 the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. An interoperability standard FED STD 1052 the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety could be used with legacy wireless devices. Examples of equipment that can be used in the present invention include different wireless gateway and radios manufactured by Harris Corporation of Melbourne Fla. This equipment could include RF5800 5022 7210 5710 5285 and PRC 117 and 138 series equipment and devices as non limiting examples.

These systems can be operable with RF 5710A high frequency HF modems and with the NATO standard known as STANAG 4539 the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety which provides for transmission of long distance HF radio circuits at rates up to 9 600 bps. In addition to modem technology those systems can use wireless email products that use a suite of data link protocols designed and perfected for stressed tactical channels such as the STANAG 4538 or STANAG 5066 the disclosures which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. It is also possible to use a fixed non adaptive data rate as high as 19 200 bps with a radio set to ISB mode and an HF modem set to a fixed data rate. It is possible to use code combining techniques and ARQ.

Non limiting examples of the present invention incorporate a tube or trellis of multiple communication paths i.e. multi paths TOMP similar to a tube along a main data or communication path to provide fault tolerance. In the TOMP transmissions are monitored by the neighboring nodes forming standby nodes. The nodes in TOMP are aware of the transmission of nodes in the main communication path. Duplicated transmission may not be required to afford fault tolerance and can be achieved in TDMA systems because the transmissions are sequential. The construction of a TOMP is dynamic and distributed to the nodes along the primary path.

In TOMP a local link break in the trellis is monitored by the neighbor nodes in the trellis. It is then repaired after a break is recognized. The approach of the present invention as will be described in detail below will actively pick a better link minimizing link outage time and enhancing the overall effectiveness of a multipath routing approach such as TOMP. Link quality monitoring and or predicting reduces the need to switch entire paths. The reaction time to a broken link is minimized and or eliminated as link optimization can be locally maintained. QOS is supported better due to less interruption in the path for data delivery.

Referring now to a mobile ad hoc network MANET in accordance with the present will now be described. The MANET includes a plurality of mobile nodes such as laptop computers personal digital assistants PDAs or mobile phones and a plurality of wireless communication links connecting the plurality of mobile nodes together. The links may be wireless communication channels as would be appreciated by those skilled in the art.

Each mobile node may include a router that has a communications device to wirelessly and unidirectionally or bidirectionally communicate with other nodes via the wireless communication links and a controller to route communications via the communications device . Also a memory may be included as part of the controller or in connection with the controller.

As shown in the controller may include a route discovery unit to establish a main communication path X for example from source node S over the wireless communication links through intermediate nodes to a respective destination node D based on a routing protocol. The route discovery unit also establishes alternative communication paths A among the plurality of mobile nodes defined by standby nodes that are positioned an n hop e.g. 1 hop distance from nodes of the main communication path M to define a respective multipath communication pathway MP from the source node S to the destination node D. The controller may include a route cache to store route tables associated with the multipath communication pathway MP as would be appreciated by those skilled in the art.

A monitoring unit monitors link quality to neighboring nodes and a data distribution unit distributes data to the destination node D along at least a corresponding main communication path M. The main communication path M may be reconfigured within multipath communication pathway MP to at least one of the alternative communication paths A based upon the monitored link quality.

The monitoring unit may request a signal to noise ratio SNR from neighboring nodes and or estimate the bit error rate BER to neighboring nodes. The monitoring unit may predict link quality based upon at least one of a signal to noise ratio SNR and a bit error rate BER to neighboring nodes. Furthermore the monitoring unit may compare the monitored link quality to a threshold such that the reconfiguration of the main communication path N is based upon the link quality falling below the threshold.

The data distribution unit may distribute data to the destination node D using both the corresponding main communication path M and at least one of the alternative communication paths A. Also the data distribution unit preferably distributes data to the destination node D using a time division multiple access TDMA protocol. The route discovery unit may establish the multipath communication pathway MP to obtain unidirectional and or bidirectional communication.

Link quality monitoring or predicting for multipath routing preferably provides link diversity multiple links for data forwarding in the same data path. Any node in the multipath communication pathway MP may monitor and or predict the link quality of its forwarding data e.g. by requesting the SNR and or estimating the BER. If the link quality is dropping below a threshold e.g. for link L in then the forwarding node will determine the availability of another link e.g. L and or L in within the multipath communication pathway MP. Data can be forwarded via both links L and L for diversity.

Finding a new link is a local process within the multipath communication pathway MP. Global knowledge is not required to make the decision and therefore reaction time to a potentially failing link can be shortened. This proactive approach to changing links with the multipath communication pathway MP will reduce the use of path backup mechanisms e.g. based upon discovery and repair thus lowering overhead and increasing throughput.

Approaches consistent with the invention may reduce link outage time and may enhance the overall effectiveness of a multipath routing scheme such as TOMP. Link quality monitoring and or predicting may reduce the need to switch entire paths. The reaction time to a broken link is reduced and or eliminated as link optimization can be locally maintained. QOS is supported better due to less interruption in the path for data delivery.

Another aspect of the invention is directed to a method for operating a mobile ad hoc network and will be described with reference to the high level flowchart of . The method begins at block and includes establishing a main communication path M over wireless communication links between a source node S through intermediate nodes to a destination node D based on a routing protocol block . At block alternative communication paths A are established among the plurality of mobile nodes defined by standby nodes that are positioned an n hop distance from nodes of the main communication path M to define a multipath communication pathway MP from the source node S to the destination node D. Link quality is monitored block between each node in the multipath communication pathway MP. At block the main communication path M is reconfigured within the multipath communication pathway MP to at least one of the alternative communication paths A based upon monitored link quality between nodes in the main communication path M.

The method may include block forwarding data from the source node S to the destination node D using the main communication path M and or using both the main communication path M and at least one of the alternative communication paths A before the method ends at block . Data may be forwarded from the source node S to the destination node D using a time division multiple access TDMA protocol and the main communication path M may be established to obtain one of unidirectional and bidirectional communication.

The alternative communication paths A may be established from standby nodes that are a 1 hop distance from the nodes of the main communication path. Also monitoring link quality may include at each node in the multipath communication pathway MP requesting a signal to noise ratio SNR from neighboring nodes and or estimating the bit error rate BER to neighboring nodes. Monitoring link quality may include predicting link quality based upon at least one of a signal to noise ratio SNR and a bit error rate BER to neighboring nodes 

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to the mind of one skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.

