---

title: Apparatus for enhancing reinforcing and firestopping around a duct extending through a structural panel
abstract: An angular flange for reinforcing and firestopping in the annulus between a structural panel such as a wall, ceiling or floor and a duct extending therethrough. The prefabricated angular flange includes a primary angular flange leg to be secured to the duct and a secondary angular flange leg approximately perpendicularly oriented relative thereto. Each flange includes a sealing member of flexible intumescent paper positionable therealong to facilitate firestopping therebetween. The sealing member preferably including two panels at an obtuse angle with respect to one another and being flexible to become approximately perpendicular with respect to one another responsive to securement of the angular flange to the duct and the surrounding structural panel. One or more uniquely designed corner brackets can be included for mounting the adjacently positioned angular flanges with respect to one another selectively.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07685792&OS=07685792&RS=07685792
owner: Specified Technologies Inc.
number: 07685792
owner_city: Somerville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070706
---
This application for utility patent application hereby formally claims priority of U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 11 432 092 filed May 11 2006 on APPARATUS FOR REINFORCING AND FIRESTOPPING AROUND A DUCT EXTENDING THROUGH A STRUCTURAL PANEL filed by the same inventors listed herein namely James P. Stahl Sr. and James P. Stahl Jr. and assigned to the same assignee identified herein namely Specified Technologies Inc. which application is currently pending and is hereby formally incorporated by reference as an integral part of the present application.

Generalized ducting is utilized for the purposes of venting heating and or air conditioning as well as other applications and purposes such as cabling for computers and the like can provide some difficulty when providing firestopping therearound as they extend or penetrate through structural panels such as walls floors and ceilings. Whenever the barriers are fire rated it is necessary that firestopping be provided around such ducts. Some times fire dampers can be installed in line with the air duct at the locations where the ducts penetrate smoke or fire barriers. Often the ducts will pass through the barriers without requiring the placement of fire dampers.

Typically firestopping is provided around such ducts by installing packing material such as mineral wool within the annulus between the duct and the inside of the opening in the structural panel. Some type of a mechanical means such as a bracket or the like is often utilized for maintaining the spacing between the duct and the structural panel in order to maintain the structural integrity of the wall when exposed to fire conditions such as heat or smoke as well as to allow the fireproofing materials to operate properly and effectively seal the annulus when exposed to such fire conditions.

After a duct has been placed extending through a structural wall ceiling or floor initially fireproofing is applied into the annulus. This fireproofing needs to be inspected by an appropriate government inspector to be sure that it meets local code requirements. Thereafter the mechanical contractor will be required to visit the site to place the flange extending between the duct and the structural panel. Inspection of the fireproofing is not possible after the panel is placed since the annulus is often hidden by the mechanical bracket extending between the duct and the panel.

The present invention provides a prefabricated apparatus which provides a structural bracket for extending between the duct and the structural panel for maintaining spacing therebetween and includes a pre installed fireproofing seat which can be applied to the surface of the bracket which will be placed adjacent to the annulus for effecting sealing and mechanical connecting between the duct and the surrounding panel simultaneously. As such this modular concept wherein the fireproofing is preformed at an obtuse angle and is positionable onto a mechanical angle bracket eliminates the necessity of having one skilled technical namely fireproofing personnel apply the fireproofing into the annulus followed by inspection and thereafter having a mechanical contractor place the bracket in place. Use of uniquely designed corner brackets also facilitate on site placement and save time for installation persons. The placement of this modular bracket which includes fireproofing can be placed by the mechanical contractor thereby eliminating the unnecessary placement or insertion step by fireproofing personnel.

Other devices have been utilized for reinforcing and or firestopping of duct flange such as shown in U.S. Pat. No. 4 183 379 patented Jan. 15 1980 to R. L. Marquette et al and assigned to Mutz Corp. on a Duct Board Assembly and U.S. Pat. No. 4 464 821 patented Aug. 14 1984 to H. M. Haytayan and assigned to Pneutek Inc. on a Method Of Attaching Insulation To A Mold and U.S. Pat. No. 4 469 018 patented Sep. 4 1984 to N. W. Taulman on an Energy Saving Closure For Foundation Vents and U.S. Pat. No. 4 616 459 patented Oct. 14 1986 to C. Shubow on a Building Construction Using Hollow Core Wall and U.S. Pat. No. 4 885 890 patented Dec. 12 1989 to G. W. Deren and assigned to STEMCOR Corporation on a Modular Furnace Lining And Hardware System Therefor and U.S. Pat. No. 4 941 630 patented Jul. 17 1990 to J. A. Albano on an Isolating Pipe Strap For Plumbing Pipes and U.S. Pat. No. 5 303 529 patented Apr. 19 1994 to R. Guardia and assigned to Sap Baustoffe and Bauchemie A G on an Attachment Of Objects On An Insulation Layer Of Low Mechanical Strength and U.S. Pat. No. 5 741 390 patented Apr. 21 1998 to J. C. Schmuck et al and assigned to Rieter Automotive International AG on a Sound Insulating Vehicle Body Part and U.S. Pat. No. 5 744 076 patented Apr. 28 1998 to K. I. Baxter on a Method For Making Insulated Concrete Wall Tie System and U.S. Pat. No. 5 765 332 patented Jun. 16 1998 to H. V. Landin et al and assigned to Minnesota Mining And Manufacturing Company on a Fire Barrier Protected Dynamic Joint and U.S. Pat. No. 5 848 509 patented Dec. 15 1998 to K. D. Knapp et al and assigned to Certain Teed Corporation on an Encapsulated Insulation Assembly and U.S. Pat. No. 5 974 750 patented Nov. 2 1999 to H. V. Landin et al and assigned to 3M Innovative Properties Company on a Fire Barrier Protected Dynamic Joint and U.S. Pat. No. 6 141 929 patented Nov. 7 2000 to M. J. Kistner et al and assigned to Kistner Concrete Products Inc. on an Insulated Pre Formed Wall Panels and U.S. Pat. No. 6 257 282 patented Jul. 10 2001 to C. D. Emmer et al and assigned to MVE Inc. on a Vacuum Insulated Pipe and U.S. Pat. No. 6 358 591 patented Mar. 19 2002 to S. S. Smith and assigned to Orcon Corporation on a Fire Blocking Insulation Blanket and U.S. Pat. No. 6 806 212 patented Oct. 19 2004 to E. R. Fyfe and assigned to Fyfe Co. LLC on a Coating And Method For Strengthening A Structure and U.S. Pat. No. 6 820 382 patented Nov. 23 2004 to D. C. Chambers et al and assigned to 3M Innovative Properties Company on a Fire Stop And Its Use and U.S. Pat. No. 6 935 379 patented Aug. 30 2005 to M. C Buchanan Sr. on a Prefabricated Insulation For HVAC Ductwork And Other Fluid Conduits .

The present invention provides an apparatus for enhancing the reinforcing and firestopping about a duct extending through a structural panel and includes a primary angular flange which is attachable with respect to a structural panel and to a duct extending therethrough for the purpose of facilitating firestop sealing around it. The primary angular flange preferably includes a primary flange first let which is positioned extending along the duct at a position adjacent to the structural panel positioned therearound. The primary flange first leg defines a primary flange first leg inner surface attachable with respect to the duct at a position adjacent to the structural panel which normally extends therearound. The primary angular flange further includes a primary flange second leg secured with respect to the primary flange first leg and extending longitudinally therealong said primary flange second leg defining a primary flange second leg inner surface facing the structural panel extending therearound to facilitate firestop sealing between the structural panel and a duct extending therethrough. The primary flange second leg inner surface of the primary flange second leg is preferably oriented extending approximately perpendicularly outwardly with respect to the primary flange first leg inner surface of the primary flange first leg for the purpose of aiding and the mounting of the primary angular flange adjacent to the structural panel and the duct extending therethrough and for firestop sealing thereadjacent.

The present invention further preferably includes a primary sealing member positioned between the primary angular flange and the duct and between the primary angular flange and the structural panel for the purpose of aiding firestop sealing therebetween. The primary sealing member preferably includes a primary sealing member first leg section extending over the primary flange first leg inner surface of the primary flange first leg to be positioned between the primary flange first leg inner surface and the duct thereadjacent.

Said primary sealing member further including a primary sealing member second leg section secured with respect to the primary sealing member first leg section and extending longitudinally therealong. The primary sealing member second leg section such that it extends over the primary flange second leg inner surface of the primary flange second leg to be positioned between the primary flange second leg inner surface and the structural panel extending therearound and adjacent to the duct. The primary sealing member second leg section is oriented at an oblique angle with respect to the primary sealing member first leg section responsive to being in the steady state relaxed position. The primary sealing member is of a flexible material to facilitate movement of the primary flange first leg section and the primary flange second leg section to a position approximately perpendicular with respect to one another responsive to attachment of the primary angular flange with respect to the duct and the structural panel.

A secondary angular flange is also included which is attachable with respect to the structural panel and to a duct extending therethrough for facilitating firestop sealing therearound. This secondary angular flange is oriented approximately perpendicularly with respect to the primary angular flange. The secondary angular flange includes a secondary flange first leg positioned extending along the duct at a position adjacent to the structural panel positioned therearound. The secondary flange first leg defines a secondary flange first leg inner surface attachable with respect to the duct at a position adjacent to the structural panel positioned therearound.

The secondary angular flange also includes a secondary flange second leg secured with respect to the secondary flange first leg and extending longitudinally therealong. This secondary flange second leg defines a secondary flange second leg inner surface facing the structural panel extending therearound to facilitate firestop sealing between the structural panel and the duct extending therethrough. The secondary flange second leg inner surface of the secondary flange second leg is oriented extending approximately perpendicularly outwardly with respect to the secondary flange first leg inner surface of the secondary flange first leg to facilitate mounting of the secondary angular flange adjacent the structural panel and the duct extending therethrough to facilitate firestop sealing.

A secondary sealing member is also included positioned between the secondary angular flange and the duct as well as between the secondary angular flange and the structural panel for sealing therearound. The secondary sealing member includes a secondary sealing member first leg section extending over the secondary flange first leg inner surface of the secondary flange first leg in order to be positioned between the secondary flange first leg inner surface and the duct thereadjacent. A secondary sealing member second leg section is also included within the construction of the secondary sealing member and it is secured with respect to the secondary sealing member first leg section and extends longitudinally therealong. This secondary sealing member second leg section extends over the secondary flange second leg inner surface of the secondary flange second leg to be positioned between the secondary flange second leg inner surface and the structural panel extending therearound as well as adjacent the duct. The secondary sealing member second leg section is oriented at an oblique angle with respect to the secondary sealing member first section responsive to being in the steady state relaxed position. On the other hand the secondary sealing member is of a flexible material sufficiently flexible to facilitate movement of the secondary flange first leg section and the secondary flange second leg section to a position approximately perpendicular with respect to one another responsive to attachment of the secondary angular flange with respect to the duct and the surrounding structural panel.

The apparatus further includes a corner bracket securable with respect to the primary angular flange and the secondary angular flange to facilitate securement therebetween and sealing between the duct and the surrounding panel. Each such corner bracket includes a first corner panel attachable with respect to the secondary flange first leg of the secondary flange. The first corner panel defines a first corner securement aperture extending therethrough. The corner bracket also includes a second corner panel attachable with respect to the primary flange first leg of the primary angular flange. The second corner panel also includes a C shaped section defining a securement channel therewithin. This C shaped section is adapted to extend around the primary flange first leg in such a manner that the securement channel defined therein is adapted to receive the primary flange first leg extending therewithin for retaining it. The second corner panel defines a second corner securement aperture therein. The corner bracket further defines a corner slot extending between the first corner panel and the second corner panel preferably to facilitate adjustable flexibility therebetween to facilitate securement of the first corner panel with respect to the secondary angular flange and securement of the second corner panel with respect to the primary angular flange.

The corner bracket further includes a third corner panel positionable in abutment with respect to the secondary flange second leg of the secondary angular flange. This third corner panel includes marking indicia displayed thereupon pointing toward the first corner panel to indicate that the duct should be positioned adjacent the secondary flange first leg inner surface of the secondary flange first leg positioned adjacent the first corner panel. The corner bracket further includes a first corner panel threaded securement means such as a screw or the like which is adapted to extend through the first corner securement aperture into engagement with the secondary flange first leg located thereadjacent. Also included is a second corner panel threaded securement device such as a screw means which is adapted to extend through the second corner securement aperture means into engagement with respect to the primary flange first leg thereadjacent.

It should be appreciated that the present invention can include multiple individual primary and secondary flanges. In the most common configuration two primary flange configurations and two secondary flange configuration will be included such that the secondary angular flanges are positioned parallel to one another and extending between a pair of primary angular flanges. This defines an overall square configuration.

It is also preferable that the primary angular flange include a primary flange first extended section extending outwardly therefrom away from the duct and along the structural panel. In this manner the corner bracket can be securable thereto to facilitate securement thereof with respect to the primary angular flange. It is also preferable that the corner brackets and flanges of the present invention be made of a metallic material preferably steel to facilitate reliability and enhance the overall strength thereof.

It is an object of the present invention to provide an apparatus for reinforcing and firestopping around a duct extending through a structural panel wherein staging of the steps of firestopping placement and mechanical bracket attachment is eliminated.

It is an object of the present invention to provide an apparatus for reinforcing and firestopping around a duct extending through a structural panel wherein a modular apparatus can be provided for simultaneously attaching a mechanical bracket between the duct and the structural panel therearound and firestop sealing of the space or annulus located therebetween.

It is an object of the present invention to provide an apparatus for reinforcing and firestopping around a duct extending through a structural panel which is easily maintained.

It is an object of the present invention to provide an apparatus for reinforcing and firestopping around a duct extending through a structural panel which can be easily replaced in a modular manner when needed.

It is an object of the present invention to provide an apparatus for reinforcing and firestopping around a duct extending through a structural panel which allows firestopping to be placed in an annulus between a duct and a surrounding wall panel by a mechanical contractor simultaneously with placing of a structural mechanical bracket extending therebetween.

It is an object of the present invention to provide an apparatus for reinforcing and firestopping around a duct extending through a structural panel which can eliminate staged inspections by local building code authorities.

It is an object of the present invention to provide an apparatus for reinforcing and firestopping around a duct extending through a structural panel which is much easier and convenient to place than the use of caulking and or mineral wool in the space between a duct and a surrounding structural panel.

It is an object of the present invention to provide an apparatus for reinforcing and firestopping around a duct extending through a structural panel which is adjustable in positioning to vary the spacing between the second flange leg of the annular flange and the structural panel.

It is an object of the present invention to provide an apparatus for reinforcing and firestopping around a duct extending through a structural panel which can be provided with a flexibly resilient paper or foam firestopping material which is fireproof and as such resistant to the flow of smoke and heat thereby.

It is an object of the present invention to provide an apparatus for reinforcing and firestopping around a duct extending through a structural pane which can optionally be constructed with intumescent firestopping material.

An apparatus is disclosed herein which reinforces and firestops between a duct and a structural panel through which duct extends. Such ducts are commonly required for heating ventilating and air conditioning as well as other purposes and will be positioned extending through various structural panels such as walls floors and or ceilings in residential as well as commercial buildings. When these structural panels are fire rated it is necessary that firestopping be provided in the space or annulus immediately surrounding such ducts between the exterior surface of the duct and the interior edge of the structural barrier panel . Ducts are usually made of a metallic material such as steel but can be made of any material capable of being formed into the shape of a conduit.

Whenever such a structural barrier or panel is fire rated it is necessary that some type of firestopping seal be placed in this annulus between the panel and the penetrating item. This firestopping process normally requires a two step operation wherein initially firestopping material is placed into the annulus. Such firestopping material can be various combinations of caulking and or mineral wool or other firestopping materials. Thereafter a structural bracket can be positioned extending between the duct and the structural panel for maintaining the integrity of the structural strength therebetween and for maintaining the spacing and other dimensions especially when subjected to fire conditions such as heat and smoke. The present invention provides a unique modular pre fabricated apparatus normally formed of a plurality of individual angular flanges such as primary angular flanges and secondary angular flanges . Each of these flanges are normally made of a metallic material such as steel or the like and are defined by individual legs extending outwardly therefrom approximately perpendicular with respect to one another.

In particular in the present invention the primary angular flange normally includes a primary flange first leg extending outwardly adjacent to the external surface of a duct such as to be capable of being attached thereto for sealing thereadjacent. The primary angular flange preferably also includes a primary flange second leg fixedly secured with respect to the primary flange first leg and extending therealong at an orientation of approximately 90 degrees relative thereto. The primary flange second leg is preferably mountable with respect to the structural panel which surrounds the duct .

Preferably the primary flange first leg defines a primary flange first leg inner surface adapted to be facing in the direction of the duct to facilitate securement with respect thereto. Similarly the primary flange second leg will preferably define a primary flange second leg inner surface positionable adjacent to the structural panel surrounding the duct to facilitate securement with respect thereto.

To facilitate sealing between the primary angular flange and the duct and structural panel a primary sealing member is preferably included. The sealing member can be made of any type of material but preferably is made of an intumescent paper material which is preformed with an obtuse angle between the two legs thereof. The primary sealing member preferably defines a primary sealing member first leg section positionable between the primary flange first leg inner surface and the duct for sealing between the primary flange first leg and duct . Similarly a primary sealing member second leg section is included in the structure of the primary sealing member which is adapted to be positioned between the primary flange second leg inner surface and the structural panel .

As such the overall configuration of the primary angular flange provides the first leg and the second leg thereof oriented at approximately 90 degrees with respect to one another. It should be appreciated that the primary angular flange is made of a steel or metal material and as such has limited flexibility and therefore maintains this angle. On the other hand however the primary sealing member includes the first leg section and the second leg section thereof in the steady state position preformed at an obtuse angle relative to one another. Other than the difference in these angles the overall general shape of the primary angular flange and the primary sealing member are quite similar. Preferably the obtuse angle between the primary sealing member first leg section and the primary sealing member second leg section is between 90 and 180 degrees but normally is preferably slightly greater than 90 degrees more particularly in the area of between 100 degrees and 145 degrees. This obtuse sealing member angle is shown as reference numeral . The general perpendicular orientation between the first and second legs and of the primary angular flange is referenced as flange leg angle in the drawings.

With this construction when the fixedly configured primary angular flange is secured to the duct and to the structural panel the primary sealing member will be urged to change to the configuration wherein the first leg section and second leg sections and thereof respectively become perpendicular with respect to one another. This deforming of the intumescent paper of the primary sealing member into the relative perpendicular configuration between the respective legs thereof is best shown in and . shows the primary sealing member with the first and second leg sections and thereof initially in the steady state position extending outwardly at an obtuse sealing member angle relative to one another. This sealing means is then placed in abutment with respect to the steel primary angular flange as shown in . When the primary flange first leg and the primary flange second leg are secured with respect to the duct and structural panel respectively the primary sealing member which is of a flexible material such as intumescent paper will be urged to move toward a similar perpendicular orientation to that of the legs of the primary angular flange as shown best in . In this manner the flexibility of the primary sealing member will facilitate sealing along various configurations of ducts and structural panels . Such ducts and panels tend to be very similar in configuration or smoothness and this intumescent sealing member facilitates intumescent sealing along most configurations of ducts and along most configurations of structural panels to effectively provide firestopping in the annular region therebetween.

In most configurations the duct is either square or rectangular and as such requires four particular angular flanges to completely seal therearound. In this configuration it is preferable to provide two different types of angular flanges. One angular flange is similar to that described above namely the primary angular flange . An alternative construction is for a second angular flange as shown best in and . The secondary angular flange is quite similar to the configuration of the primary angular flange . However normally the second angular flange is run perpendicular thereto. As shown in a conventional square or rectangular duct can be sealed by the inclusion of two primary angular flanges and two secondary angular flanges . Each of the two primary angular flanges will extend parallel to one another on opposite sides of the duct and to secondary angular flanges will extend parallel with respect to one another on the other opposite two sides of the duct . Thus each primary angular flange will be positioned between two adjacently positioned and approximately perpendicularly oriented secondary angular flanges .

Each secondary angular flange will be similar in configuration to the primary angular flange and will include a secondary flange first leg and a secondary flange second leg oriented approximately perpendicularly longitudinally therealong. The secondary flange first leg will define a secondary flange first leg inner surface positionable immediately adjacent duct . The secondary flange second leg will include a secondary flange second leg inner surface adapted to be positioned adjacent to the structural panel . A secondary sealing member will be included having a secondary sealing member first leg section and a secondary sealing member second leg section . In a steady state position the secondary flange first leg will be approximately perpendicularly oriented with respect to the secondary flange first leg inner surface . In the steady state position however the secondary sealing member first leg section will be oriented at an obtuse angle relative to the secondary sealing member second leg section .

The mounting of the secondary angular flange with respect to the duct and the structural panel will be similar to that described above for the primary angular flange . That is the perpendicular in nature of the normally steel secondary angular flange will cause the relative obtuse angle between the secondary sealing member first leg section and the secondary sealing member second leg section to move from the obtuse angle therebetween to a generally perpendicular orientation therebetween responsive to securement of the secondary angular flange with respect to the duct .

One of the unique aspects of the present invention is the inclusion of a unique configuration for a corner bracket adapted to secure the legs of the primary angular flange relative to the legs of the secondary angular flange . In the preferred configuration the corner bracket will include a first corner panel and a second corner panel and a third coiner panel . Each of these corner panels is perpendicularly oriented to both other panels.

With this configuration the first corner panel will preferably include a first corner securement aperture means . To facilitate securement of the first corner panel relative to the secondary flange first leg of the secondary angular flange . This securement is facilitated by the inclusion of a first corner securement aperture means defined within the first corner panel . A first corner panel threaded securement means such as a sheet metal screw or the like may be positionable extending through the first corner securement aperture means into engagement with the secondary flange first leg of the secondary angular flange positioned therebelow. In this manner from securement between the first corner panel and the secondary angular flange is achievable.

The second corner panel is mountable with respect to the primary flange first leg of the primary angular flange . This securement is preferably achievable by providing the second corner panel with a C shaped section defining a securement channel extending therealong. Securement channel is adapted to receive the primary flange first leg thereinto for securement of the second corner panel with respect to the primary angular flange . Additional securement can be provided by the defining of a second corner securement aperture within the second corner panel . This second corner securement aperture is defined to be capable of receiving a second corner panel threaded securement means such as a sheet metal screw or the like extending therethrough to further fixedly secure the second corner panel with respect to the primary flange first leg of the primary angular flange . It should be appreciated that the added securement of the second corner panel threaded securement means extending through the second corner securement aperture may not be needed because of the engagement provided between the second corner panel and the primary angular flange by the C shaped section and the securement channel defined therein. However the possibility of inclusion of a second more redundant means for securement of the second coiner panel relative to the primary angular flange is sometimes deemed to be needed.

Furthermore it should be appreciated that the primary difference between the configuration of the primary angular flange and the secondary angular flange is that the primary angular flange will preferably include primary flange first extended sections . These sections extend beyond the specific dimensions of the duct as shown best in . The securement between the primary angular flange and a secondary angular flange by a corner bracket is best achieved by providing these primary angular flanges with extended section which extend beyond the specific dimensions of the duct .

Each corner bracket also includes a third corner panel which is adapted to exert force against the secondary flange second leg to urge it to provide sealing against the structural panel therebeneath. Thus the three individual panels and of the corner bracket are adapted to firmly maintain the interlocking configuration between adjacently positioned portions of the primary angular flange and the secondary angular flange . The third corner panel preferably includes marking indicia thereon which preferably includes the word duct and an arrow to facilitate and enhance the capabilities of installation personnel in properly positioning and orienting the corner brackets for fixedly securing adjacent angular flanges relative to one another. Some flexibility in the orientation of the first corner panel relative to the second corner panel needs to be provided to account for various different dimensions and configurations of ducts structural panels and angular flanges and and for this purpose a corner slot means is preferably defined in each of the corner brackets extending along the entire length between the first corner panel and the second corner panel .

With the configuration shown in two primary angular flanges will be positioned extending generally horizontally and two secondary angular flanges will be positioned extending generally vertically between the pair of primary angular flanges . With this configuration it is preferable to include two different configurations of corner brackets . It should be appreciated that two different configurations is not necessary and the present invention can certainly be practiced in a fully enabling manner with a single configuration as long as it includes the three basic panels as described herein however two separate configurations are preferable. The initial corner configuration A shown by reference numeral is shown in and . The alternative configuration which is corner configuration B shown as reference numeral is shown in and . It should be appreciated that these two configurations are direct mirror images of one another and are disclosed herein only for the purposes of further enabling the present invention be practiced. As shown in when a conventional configuration of a duct is utilized which is generally rectangular and two primary angular flanges and two secondary angular flanges are included it will be preferable to include corner brackets of the A configuration and two corner brackets of the B configuration. This has been shown to be the most convenient configuration for facilitating reliability of installation by installation personnel. However the overall design of the present invention can certainly be practiced by the inclusion of a single configuration of the corner bracket such that it includes the basic three corner panels and as described herewithin.

While particular embodiments of this invention have been shown in the drawings and described above it will be apparent that many changes may be made in the form arrangement and positioning of the various elements of the combination. In consideration thereof it should be understood that preferred embodiments of this invention disclosed herein are intended to be illustrative only and not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

