---

title: High resolution analysis of soil elements with laser-induced breakdown
abstract: The invention is a system and method of detecting a concentration of an element in a soil sample wherein an opening or slot is formed in a container that supports a soil sample that was extracted from the ground whereupon at least a length of the soil sample is exposed via the opening. At each of a plurality of points along the exposed length thereof, the soil sample is ablated whereupon a plasma is formed that emits light characteristic of the elemental composition of the ablated soil sample. Each instance of emitted light is separated according to its wavelength and for at least one of the wavelengths a corresponding data value related to the intensity of the light is determined. As a function of each data value a concentration of an element at the corresponding point along the length of the soil core sample is determined.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07692789&OS=07692789&RS=07692789
owner: The United States of America as represented by the United States Department of Energy
number: 07692789
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070413
---
The United States has a paid up license in the invention described and may manufacture and or use this invention by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes in accordance with the terms of Contract Number W 7450 ENG 36.

The present invention relates to analyzing soil core samples and more particularly to analyzing soil core samples using laser induced breakdown spectroscopy LIBS .

Heretofore no means existed for determining the concentration of an element at multiple locations of a soil core sample insitu. For example heretofore each section of a soil core sample was subjected to so called dry combustion analysis to determine the concentration of an element in the sample. While dry combustion analysis has been deemed adequate in the past presently there exists a need to accurately determine the concentration of an element such as carbon at multiple locations of a soil core sample to support national and international policies on carbon emissions and carbon trading in a more cost effective and timely manner than the prior art.

The invention is a laser induced breakdown spectroscopy LIBS system for detecting a concentration of at least one element in a soil core sample. The system includes a carrier supporting a substantially vertically extracted soil core sample with a vertical section of the sample accessible via an opening in the carrier and a laser operative for outputting laser light along a path. Means are provided for supporting the carrier transverse to the path with the vertical section of the sample in the path. Means are provided for detecting light generated of at least one wavelength by a plasma produced in response to the laser light impinging on the sample and for outputting an electrical signal related thereto. Lastly a controller is provided that is operative for controlling the laser to output at least one pulse of laser light for each step of the vertical section of the sample through the laser light path for sampling in response to each pulse of laser light impinging on the sample the electrical signal output by the means for detecting and for determining a concentration of at least one element in the soil core sample where the corresponding laser light pulse impinged as a function of each sampled electrical signal.

The means for detecting can include a fiber optic cable having a first end positioned to receive the light generated by the plasma and a second end for outputting said light a spectrograph coupled to a second end of the fiber optic cable and operative for separating the light output thereby according to its wavelength and a detector for detecting at least the wavelength of light corresponding to the element and for converting the detected wavelength of light into the electrical signal.

The controller can further be operative for converting each electrical signal output by the detector into an equivalent data value comparing each equivalent data value to a plurality of reference data values determined from a like plurality of reference soil core samples that have different textures and or compositions to determine an optimal fit of the equivalent data value to the reference data values and determining the concentration of the element e.g. carbon in the soil sample based on said comparison.

Each reference data value can be determined by at least one of principal components regression PCR analysis and or partial least squares regression PLSR analysis.

The means for supporting can include a moveable stage for supporting the carrier and a drive coupled to the moveable stage and operative for moving the moveable stage at least one predetermined distance.

For each step of the vertical section of the sample through the laser light path the controller can be operative for controlling the laser to output a plurality of laser light pulses to a location of the vertical section of the sample presently in the laser light path determining a data value related to an average of a plurality of electrical signals output by the means for detecting in response to the output of said plurality of laser light pulses and determining the concentration of at least one element in the soil core sample as a function of said data value.

For each step of the vertical section of the sample through the laser light path the controller can be operative for converting each electrical signal output by the detector into equivalent data value whereupon the data value determined by the controller is an average of a plurality of equivalent data values comparing the data value to a plurality of reference data values determined from a like plurality of reference soil core samples that have different textures and or compositions to determine an optimal fit of the data value to the reference data values and determining the concentration of the element in the soil sample based on said comparison.

Each reference data value can be determined by at least one of principal components regression PCR analysis and or partial least squares regression PLSR analysis on a corresponding reference soil sample.

The controller can further be operative for determining an integral of the concentration of the at least one element over a length of the vertical section of the sample.

The carrier can be tube shaped. The opening can be a slot in the body of the tube that extends substantially parallel to a longitudinal axis of the tube.

The invention is also a method of detecting a concentration of at least one element in a soil core sample comprising a using a container to extract an intact soil core sample from the ground b forming at least one opening in said container whereupon at least a length of the intact soil core sample is exposed through said opening c at each of a plurality of points along the length of the exposed soil core sample ablating the soil core sample whereupon a plasma is formed that emits light characteristic of the elemental composition of the ablated soil core sample at said point d separating each instance of emitted light according to its wavelength e determining for at least one wavelength of each instance of emitted light a corresponding data value related to the intensity thereof and f determining as a function of each data value a concentration of at least one element at the corresponding point along the length of the soil core sample.

Step f can include comparing the data value to a plurality of reference data values determined from a like plurality of reference soil core samples that have different textures and or compositions to determine an optimal fit of the data value to the reference data values and determining as a function of said comparison a concentration of at least one element at the corresponding point along the length of the soil core sample.

Step c can include ablating the soil core sample a plurality of times at each point. Step f can include determining the concentration of the one element at each point as a function of an average of a plurality of the data values determined from ablation occurring at said point.

The method can further include determining as a function of data values determined for a subset of the length of the exposed soil core sample an integral of the concentration of the at least one element over said subset of the length.

The container can be a tube. The opening can be a slot in a wall of the tube that extends substantially parallel to an axis of the tube. The length of the soil core sample exposed in the slot can be in a depth direction of the soil core sample.

Lastly the invention is a system for detecting a concentration of at least one element in a soil core sample. The system includes means for forming at least one opening in a container containing an intact soil core sample extracted from the ground whereupon at least a length of the intact soil core sample is exposed via said opening means for ablating the soil core sample at each of a plurality of points along the length of the exposed soil core sample whereupon for each instance of ablating the soil core sample an instance of a plasma is formed that emits an instance of light characteristic of the elemental composition of the corresponding ablated soil core sample means for separating each instance of emitted light according to its wavelength means for determining for at least one wavelength of each instance of emitted light a corresponding data value related to the intensity thereof and means for determining as a function of each data value a concentration of at least one element at the corresponding point along the length of the soil core sample.

The system can further include means for comparing the data value to a plurality of reference data values determined from a like plurality of reference soil core samples that have different textures and or compositions to determine an optimal fit of the data value to the reference data values and means for determining as a function of said comparison a concentration of at least one element at the corresponding point along the length of the soil core sample.

The means for ablating can ablate the soil core sample a plurality of times at each point. The means for determining can determine the concentration of the one element at each point based an average of a plurality of the data values determined from the plurality of ablations occurring at said point.

The system can further include means for determining as a function of data values determined for a subset of the length of the exposed soil core sample an integral of the concentration of the at least one element over said subset of the length.

Specifically an Nd YAG laser operating at a wavelength of 1 064 nanometers 50 mJ pulses of 10 nanoseconds is focused with a lens of 50 mm focal length on each of a plurality of portions of a soil core sample. Each instance of light emitted by a plasma in response to interaction between laser light output by the laser and the soil core sample is collected through a fused silica fiber optic cable pointed at the plasma from a distance of about 50 mm. A spectrograph having a 0.5 meter focal length resolves the detected laser light using a gated intensified photo diode array detector.

A stepping motor and moveable stage coupled to transport an intact soil core sample through the focal point of the laser light allowed collection of spectra each 1 mm along the length or depth of the soil core sample. In one embodiment twenty plasma light samples were collected and averaged at each step. Peak areas were integrated to estimate signal intensities for each spectrum background signal was subtracted and the carbon signal was ratioed to a signal of silicon at 251 nanometers wavelength to minimize sample to sample instrument variation. Typical measurement volumes for the analysis were between one and five mm.

Each intact soil core sample was collected in a plastic tube. A slit of approximately 10 mm was cut in the plastic tube along the length thereof to allow laser light access to the soil core sample. The soil core sample was then cycled through the instrument and data were collected at each 1 mm step along the core.

Carbon peak areas were estimated from the raw data and plotted with core depth. The data were then integrated by 2.5 cm depth and the geometric mean of the measurement computed for each interval. Comparison of data acquired in accordance with the present invention to dry combustion data was reasonably consistent.

The present invention will be described with reference to the accompanying figures where like reference numbers correspond to like elements.

With reference to and a soil core sample is extracted from the earth or ground via any suitable coring apparatus such as without limitation a so called Giddings probe or a core from shallow drill rig operations. More specifically an insertion tool having a carrier or container shown in phantom in received therein is inserted to ground substantially vertically in the direction shown by arrows in and . Once carrier has acquired a suitable vertical depth of soil core sample insertion tool is vertically extracted from ground in the direction shown by arrow in .

Insertion tool can be any suitable and or desirable length L and diameter D such as without limitation L 3 ft. and diameter D 1 in. Insertion tool is typically made of a tough durable metal such as aluminum an aluminum alloy steel a steel alloy etc. The foregoing dimensions and material selection for insertion tool however are not to be construed as limiting the invention since it is envisioned that an insertion tool having any suitable and or desirable dimensions and made of any suitable and or desirable material can be utilized.

Once insertion tool has been removed from ground carrier is removed therefrom. Carrier can have a length L which can be approximately the same as length L and diameter D which is smaller than diameter D. However this is not to be construed as limiting the invention.

Desirably carrier is made from a material that is rigid but can readily be cut to facilitate access to at least a length of soil core sample along its depth direction i.e. the direction soil core sample was extracted from ground . One suitable non limiting material that carrier can be made from includes any suitable and or desirable form of plastic. Desirably insertion tool and or carrier are tube shaped. However this is not to be construed as limiting the invention since any suitable and or desirable shape of insertion tool and or carrier can be utilized.

At a suitable time after carrier including intact soil core sample has been removed from insertion tool an opening such as an elongated slit is formed in the body of carrier parallel to the longitudinal axis thereof. Opening can extend all or part of the length of carrier as desired. Accordingly the illustration in of opening running the entire length of carrier is not to be construed as limiting the invention. In one desirable embodiment opening has a width S of approximately 10 mm. However this is not to be construed as limiting the invention.

Opening can be formed in any suitable or desirable manner such as without limitation routing. However this is not to be construed as limiting the invention.

With reference to and with continuing reference to a laser induced breakdown spectroscopy LIBS instrument is utilized for testing soil core sample in carrier . More specifically a means for supporting is utilized to support carrier relative to LIBS instrument . Desirably means for supporting includes a moveable stage which is moveable under the control of a motor such as a stepping motor operated either manually or under the control of a controller of LIBS instrument .

In addition to controller LIBS instrument includes a laser operating under the control of controller for outputting laser light along a path .

LIBS instrument includes a lens for focusing laser light to a focal point where the combination of carrier supported by moveable stage supports intact soil core sample exposed via opening in carrier . Thus focal point of laser light impinges a point on the side surface of soil core sample exposed through opening and carrier .

LIBS instrument includes a fiber optic cable having a first end positioned to receive light generated by a plasma discussed in greater detail hereinafter generated in response to the interaction of focal point of laser light and the point of soil core sample where said focal point impinges. In one non limiting embodiment first end is positioned about 50 mm away from the plasma. However this is not to be construed as limiting the invention.

Fiber optic cable includes a second end which outputs into a spectrograph light received from the plasma in first end . Spectrograph is a well known means for separating light output at second end of fiber optic cable according to its wavelength.

A detector is positioned to detect at least one wavelength of emitted light separated by spectrograph from the light output from second end of fiber optic cable . Since each element outputs light at one or more wavelengths detector detecting at least one wavelength of light output by spectrograph enables determination of an element in the plasma generated in response to laser light impinging on a point of soil core sample . In one non limiting embodiment detector can be a gated intensified photodiode array. However this is not to be construed as limiting the invention.

Detector converts light at least one wavelength into a corresponding electrical signal which is supplied to controller . In response to receiving this electrical signal controller converts the electrical signal output by detector into a corresponding digital data value related to amplitude of the electrical signal and hence the intensity of the light at least at the one wavelength being monitored. For example when ablated by laser light the element carbon produces a plasma that emits light at among other things a wavelength of 247.8 nm. The combination of spectrograph and detector can be operative for detecting light at this wavelength while controller can be operative for determining a corresponding data value related to the intensity of the light at this wavelength.

Desirably laser is an Nd YAG laser having a wavelength of 1 064 nm lens has a focal length of 50 mm and fiber optic cable is a fused silica fiber optic cable.

In operation stepping motor is controlled either manually or via controller as indicated by dashed line to step stage and hence carrier in the direction shown by arrow transverse to path of laser light . More specifically means for supporting translates opening of carrier transverse desirably perpendicular to path of laser light whereupon as carrier is translated path of laser light passes through opening whereupon laser light can interact with soil core sample exposed via opening in carrier anywhere along the length of opening .

In operation carrier is initially positioned on moveable stage such that focal point impinges soil core sample exposed via opening in carrier adjacent a first end thereof. At a suitable time controller causes laser to output laser light . In one non limiting example laser outputs a 50 ml pulse of 10 nanosecond duration. However this is not to be construed as limiting the invention.

In response to focal point of laser light impinging on soil core sample soil core sample is ablated thereby producing a plasma that emits light that is detected by spectrograph via fiber optic cable . Detector detects one or more wavelengths of light output by spectrograph and outputs one or more electrical signals indicative of each wavelength of light to controller which converts each electrical signal into a corresponding data value related to the amplitude of the electrical signal and hence the intensity of the wavelength of emitted light. The processing of this data value will be described in greater detail hereinafter.

Next means for supporting steps carrier a predetermined distance in direction . Thereafter the process of causing laser light to ablate a small sample of soil core sample exposed via opening of carrier to create a corresponding plasma and the acquisition by controller of a data value related to the intensity of a desired wavelength of light emitted by plasma is repeated in the manner described above. The process of means for supporting stepping carrier and the acquisition of a data value related to the intensity of at least one wavelength of light emitted by a corresponding plasma is repeated until a desired length of soil sample in its depth direction has been sampled. Said process is continued until a desired number of readings are obtained or the second final end of carrier is reached.

At a suitable time each data value corresponding to the intensity of light emitted by plasma at least at one wavelength is compared to a plurality of reference data values determined from light acquired from a plurality of reference core samples that have different textures and or compositions to determine an optimal fit of the data value to the reference data values. The concentration in the soil core sample corresponding to the wavelength of light emitted by the plasma is determined based on the comparison. Desirably each reference data value is determined by either principle component regression analysis and or partially least squares regression analysis on a corresponding reference soil sample in a manner known in the art. However this is not to be construed as limiting the invention.

Once the concentration of the element in the soil core sample has been determined for each sample point or location along the length of opening a plot of concentration of the element versus depth can be formed in any suitable and or desirable manner either manually or automatically via controller .

Desirably instead of outputting a single pulse of laser light at each sample point along the length of opening a plurality of pulses of laser light can be output at each point and the resulting data values averaged to determine an average data value related to the electrical signals output by the detector in response to the laser light pulses. In one non limiting embodiment twenty pulses of laser light are output by laser at each sample point along the length of opening . However this is not to be construed as limiting the invention.

In order to avoid instrument variation between pulses of laser light at each sample point of soil core sample the data value corresponding the element being sampled e.g. carbon can be ratioed with a data value related to an element having a known wavelength e.g. Si at 251 nm to minimize such variation.

Also or alternatively if desired an integral of the concentration of the element e.g. carbon can be determined over a length of soil core sample exposed via opening of container . For example if soil core sample is ablated one or more times every 1 mm step along the length of opening of container the mathematical integral of the concentration of the least one element over a predetermined interval of the overall length e.g. every 2.5 cm can be determined and the geometric mean computed for each interval.

Reasonable agreement was found between the geometric means of the data values acquired utilizing the present invention for each 2.5 cm interval and dry combustion data obtained for said interval.

The present invention has been described with reference to the preferred embodiments. Obvious modifications and alterations will occur to others upon reading and understanding the preceding detailed description. It is intended that the invention be construed as including all such modifications and alterations insofar as they come within the scope of the appended claims or the equivalents thereof.

