---

title: HYD1 peptides as anti-cancer agents
abstract: The present invention concerns fragments and variants of the HYD1 peptide; polynucleotides encoding the peptides; host cells genetically modified with the polynucleotides; vectors comprising the polynucleotides; compositions containing these peptides, polynucleotides, vectors, or host cells; and methods of using the peptides, polynucleotides, vectors, and host cells as inhibitors of aberrant cell growth in vitro or in vivo, e.g., as anti-cancer agents for treatment of cancer, such as myeloma. The present invention further includes a method of increasing the efficacy of chemotherapy and radiation therapy, comprising administering an agent that binds β1 integrin to a patient in need thereof. In one embodiment, the β1 integrin binding agent is the HYD1 peptide, or a functional fragment or variant thereof. In another aspect, the invention pertains to a composition (an adhesion trap) comprising a substrate (also referred to as a surface or support) with a HYD1 peptide, or fragment or variant thereof, immobilized to the substrate, and a method of removing circulating tumor cells (CTC) from blood by contacting a subject's blood with the immobilized peptide. Another aspect of the invention concerns a method of identifying modulators of peptide binding. Another aspect of the invention concerns a method for detecting CTC.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07632814&OS=07632814&RS=07632814
owner: The Regents of the University of California
number: 07632814
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070907
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 824 838 filed Sep. 7 2006 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 944 160 filed Jun. 15 2007 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety including any figures tables nucleic acid sequences amino acid sequences and drawings.

The subject matter of this application has been supported by a research grant from the National Institutes of Health under grant number CA077859. Accordingly the government has certain rights in this invention.

Many tumor types will often initially respond to chemotherapy treatment. However successful treatment of these diseases is limited by the failure to eliminate minimal residual disease MRD . Moreover relapse is often associated with a multi drug resistant phenotype that contributes to decreased chemotherapy sensitivity and failure of salvage treatment. Acquired drug resistance entails a great deal of genomic complexity which dramatically increases the difficulty in managing such diseases. The present inventors propose that a viable strategy for enhancing the efficacy of currently used cytotoxics is to identify targets which contribute to de novo drug resistance thereby increasing the efficacy and success of initial therapy intervention and decreasing relapse rates. By definition de novo drug resistance is represented by mechanisms which do not require drug selection for the expression of the phenotype. De novo drug resistant models are in contrast to historical drug resistant models which have been based upon unicellular drug selections over time thereby excluding the impact of tumor cell interaction with the microenvironment on drug response see .

The present inventors demonstrated that components of the tumor microenvironment influence the response of hematopoietic cell lines to chemotherapeutics and could contribute to de novo resistance. Specifically it has been shown that adhesion of leukemia and multiple myeloma cell lines to the extracellular matrix component fibronectin FN via 1 integrin is sufficient to inhibit drug induced apoptosis. Hazlehurst L A et al. 2000 19 4319 4327 Hazlehurst L A et al. 2003 63 7900 7906 Hazlehurst L A et al. 2001 98 1897 1903 Hazlehurst L A et al. 2006 66 2338 2345 Hazlehurst L A et al. 2001 20 43 50 Hazlehurst L A et al. 1999 59 1021 1028 Hazlehurst L A et al. 1995 50 1087 1094 Hazlehurst L A et al. 2003 22 7396 7402 . More recently it was shown that the cell adhesion induced drug resistance CAM DR phenotype is operative in clinical samples taken from primary multiple myeloma Hazlehurst L A et al. 2003 63 7900 7906 . Together these data suggest that adhesion of hematopoietic tumor cells to FN could contribute to the failure of currently used cytotoxics to eradicate the entire disease and may facilitate the subsequent emergence of clinical drug resistance.

The emergence of drug resistant tumor cells remains an obstacle to the successful treatment of many hematopoietic malignancies including Acute Myeloid Leukemia AML Multiple Myeloma and Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia CML . Our laboratory along with others has previously shown that cell adhesion via 1 integrins is sufficient to cause drug resistance Chrenek M A et al. 2001 3 224 229 Damiano J S et al. 1999 93 1658 1667 Damiano J S et al. 2001 15 1232 1239 de la Fuente M T et al. 2002 71 495 502 Hazlehurst L A et al. 2000 19 4319 4327 Hazlehurst L A et al. 2003 63 7900 7906 Hazlehurst L A et al. 2001 98 1897 1903 Sethi T et al. 1999 5 662 668 Sherman Baust C A et al. 2003 3 377 386 .

 1 integrin mediated cell adhesion is a clinically relevant mechanism whereby tumor cells can evade cell death induced by chemotherapy. In support of this hypothesis the inventors have previously shown that cell adhesion via 1 integrins to the extracellular matrix fibronectin confers a multi drug resistance phenotype. As indicated above the inventors have referred to that phenotype as CAM DR. Moreover the inventors have validated the CAM DR phenotype in primary myeloma patient specimens. More recently the inventors have shown that co culturing tumor cells with a bone marrow stroma cell whereby tumor cells are in direct contact with the bone marrow stroma cell line confers drug resistance. The present inventors have referred to this phenotype as environmental mediated drug resistance or EMDR. Due to the in vitro findings the inventors hypothesized that targeting 1 integrin mediated cell adhesion will increase the efficacy of drugs used to treat cancers.

The development of target based drug discovery has provided novel approaches for the treatment of hematopoietic malignancies. However despite the recent advances in drug discovery it is clear that rationally designed chemotherapeutics such as the BCR ABL kinase inhibitor imanitib although effective do not circumvent the emergence of clinical drug resistance Buchdunger E et al. 1996 56 100 104 Druker B J et al. 1996 2 561 566 Gorre M E et al. 2001 293 876 880 Hochhaus A et al. 2001 293 2163 Sawyers C L. 2001 294 1834 . These data support the importance of identifying and targeting drug resistant mechanism s as a viable strategy for improving the efficacy of cancer chemotherapy. A cancer cell can employ multiple strategies that ultimately favor survival following cytotoxic insult. These mechanisms include decreased drug uptake increased drug efflux alterations in the drug target drug metabolism repair of DNA damage cell cycle checkpoint mediators and changes in downstream mediators of the apoptotic pathway.

Traditionally drug resistance mechanisms have been identified and functionally characterized in unicellular models. However unicellular models lack consideration of host tumor cell interactions that may participate in the emergence of the drug resistant phenotype. We propose that the initial selection pressure for tumor growth and survival is represented by host tumor cell interactions and furthermore these same interactions may participate in modulating drug response and emergence of drug resistance. Indeed Teicher et al provided experimental data supporting this concept Teicher B A et al. 1990 247 1457 1461 . These investigators showed that treatment of mice bearing EMT 6 mammary tumors over a six month period with alkylating agents resulted in the selection of a drug resistance phenotype that was operative only in vivo. Conversely the resistance phenotype was not detected in a unicellular tissue culture system indicating the importance of the microenvironment in mediating the expression of a functional drug resistance phenotype. Thus we suggest that in order to identify clinically relevant de novo drug resistant targets new models must be developed allowing for reconstitution of complex host tumor cell interactions.

The first model demonstrating the survival effects of cell adhesion was developed by Durand and Sutherland in 1972 Durand R E S et al. 1972 71 75 80 . In this model they demonstrated that forcing V79 Chinese hamster cells to grow in a spheroid culture was causative for radiation resistance relative to cells treated as a monolayer. The implication of the spheroid model is that cell cell contact may enhance survival of tumor cells in response to cytotoxic stimuli. Unlike solid tumors most hematopoietic tumors do not grow as a spheroid in vivo. However as the knowledge of adhesion receptors ligands and counter receptors has grown it is apparent that hematopoietic cells maintain a dynamic relationship with the bone marrow stroma and components of the extracellular matrix. Furthermore it is well documented that adhesion molecules participate in the growth differentiation survival and homing of hematopoietic cells Bohnsack J F et al. 1994 83 543 552 Hamdan H F et al. 1992 4 201 207 Potocnik A J et al. 2000 12 653 663 Wang M W et al. 1998 9 105 112 .

Cellular adhesion taken in context within the entire microenvironment is multifactorial. However of these adhesion molecules identified in hematopoietic cells integrins are the best characterized for their role in regulating cell growth survival differentiation and homing to the bone marrow. Integrin receptors are comprised of non covalently associated heterodimeric subunits. The integrin receptors contain both an alpha and beta subunit. To date 17 and 8 subunits have been identified. Among the integrin family VLA 4 4 1 and VLA 5 5 1 integrins are the most commonly reported integrin receptors expressed in AML Vila L et al. 1995 23 514 518 and multiple myeloma Cook G et al. 1997 97 81 89 .

The inventors initial observations using cellular adhesion to FN as a model system for investigating CAM DR was done in multiple myeloma cell lines Damiano J S et al. Blood. 1999 93 1658 1667 . Myeloma is a disease that homes to the bone marrow and is characterized by the accumulation of plasma cells in the bone marrow. But multiple myeloma is not the only hematopoietic malignancy in which CAM DR may contribute to disease progression and drug resistance. It is well accepted that initial chemotherapy of CML and AML results in rapid clearing of detectable disease in the peripheral blood. However elimination of disease in the bone marrow is a more arduous task suggesting that de novo drug resistance associated with the bone marrow microenvironment may contribute to residual disease. Consistent with these clinical observations the present inventors shown a similar CAM DR phenotype in CML and AML cell lines indicating that adhesion mediated drug resistance may impact several malignancies Damiano J S et al. 2001 15 1232 1239 Hazlehurst L A et al. 2001 98 1897 1903 . In addition Matsunaga et al. recently showed in a mouse model of AML minimal residual disease MRD that treatment with a VLA 4 specific antibody and AraC significantly increased survival compared to treatment with AraC alone Matsunaga T et al. 2003 9 1158 1165 . The inventors propose that cell adhesion maybe a key determinant of de novo drug resistance and failure to eliminate MRD in AML.

Despite recent advances in the treatment of multiple myeloma the disease remains incurable. Due to the inherent resistance associated with myeloma identification of targets contributing to failure to eliminate minimal residual disease remains in area of active research. As indicated above myeloma typically homes to the bone marrow and this specialized environment may contribute to failure to eliminate minimal residual disease. The bone marrow microenvironment represents an area that is enriched in deposition of extracellular matrixes. The inventors previously showed that adhesion of myeloma cells to the extrallular matrix fibronectin FN inhibits apoptosis induced by mechanistically and structurally diverse chemotherapeutic agents Damiano J S et al. 1999 93 1658 1667 Hazlehurst L A et al. 2000 19 4319 4327 Hazlehurst L A et al. 2003 63 7900 7906 . Moreover the inventors recently demonstrated that adhesion of primary patient multiple myeloma specimens to FN protects multiple myeloma cells form melphalan induced apoptosis Hazlehurst L A et al. 2003 63 7900 7906 . Taken together our previous data indicates that targeting FN receptors VLA 4 VLA 5 integrins and or signaling may enhance the efficacy of cytotoxic agents used to treat multiple myeloma.

VLA 4 and VLA 5 integrins are the most common integrins expressed on myeloma cells Van Riet I et al. 1991 79 421 427 . These two integrin receptors are both comprised of a 1 subunit and experimental evidence indicates that downstream signaling occurs through the 1 integrin cytoplasmic tail region. 1 integrins are reported to activate a complex network of signaling which includes activation of Mapk Akt Fak Pyk2 and integrin linked kinase or ILK Astier A et al. 1997 272 19719 19724 Chen Q et al. 1996 271 18122 18127 King W G et al. 1997 17 4406 4418 Schaller M D and Parsons J T et al. 1995 15 2635 2645 Schlaepfer D D et al. 1994 372 786 791 Hannigan G E et al. 1996 379 91 96 . In addition the present inventors recently showed that adhesion of myeloma and leukemia cells to FN reduced the levels of the pro apoptotic Bcl 2 family member Bim Hazlehurst L A et al. 2007 136 2 269 75 .

The inventors have identified peptides capable of inducing cell death in cancer cells. Without being limited by theory the peptides bind 1 containing integrin and thereby inhibit 1 integrin mediated adhesion. Treatment with the peptide inhibitors of 1 integrin mediated adhesion potentiates drug induced cell death in an EMDR model. Together the data indicate 1 integrins are a critical determinant of EMDR and that binding 1 integrin can increase the efficacy of chemotherapy and radiation therapy particularly in the bone marrow microenvironment.

Due to the multiplicity of 1 integrin signaling and potential multiple downstream targets that may contribute to drug resistance it was postulated that targeting the receptor was a reasonable strategy to determine if blocking 1 integrin binding and hence signaling would enhance the efficacy of standard therapy. To this end the inventors explored the mechanism of action of a 1 integrin inhibitory peptide referred to as HYD1 DeRoock I B et al. 2001 61 3308 3313 Pennington M E et al. 1996 2 19 28 Sroka T C et al. 2006 27 9 1748 57 . HYD1 is a D amino acid peptide comprised of all D amino acids that was previously shown to block 1 integrin mediated adhesion of prostate carcinoma cells to FN laminin 1 laminin 5 and collagen IV. The present inventors have determined that HYD1 does indeed reverse resistance associated with a bone marrow stroma co culture model. However an unanticipated result was that HYD1 has activity as a single agent when myeloma cells are cultured in suspension. Furthermore HYD1 enhanced melphalan induced cell death in both suspension and co culture models. The mechanism of cell death induced by HYD1 is independent of caspase activation and experimental evidence indicates that HYD1 induces autophagy. Finally using a SCID Hu model the inventors show that HYD1 has activity as a single agent in vivo. These results provide the basis using HYD1 in multiple myeloma and other tumors that display the CAM DR phenotype including AML CML lymphoma breast and lung Damiano J S et al. 1999 93 1658 1667 Hazlehurst L A et al. 2000 19 4319 4327 Hazlehurst L A et al. 2003 63 7900 7906 Hazlehurst L A et al. 2007 136 2 269 75 Aoudjit F and Vuori K. 2001 20 4995 5004 Damiano J S et al. 2001 15 1232 1239 Hazlehurst L A et al. 2006 66 2338 2345 Hazlehurst L A et al. 2001 98 1897 1903 Sethi T et al. 1999 5 662 668 Lwin T et al 2007 110 5 1631 8 .

It is well established that many cancer cells can die through apoptosis or programmed cell death type I cell death . However tumor progression and relapse is often associated with tumor cells becoming resistant to apoptotic stimuli. Autophagy self eating can under the appropriate context result in an alternative mechanism of cell death that is independent of the activation of caspases type II cell death . Autophagy is characterized by the formation of double membrane containing vesicles that sequester cytoplasm and organelles. These double membrane vesicles are then delivered to the lysosome for bulk degradation of contents.

Most of the anti cancer agents used clinically target the type I cell death pathway. The results described herein indicate that HYD1 induces cell death though in an autophagic or type II mechanism of cell death. Targeting a type II cell death pathway is attractive as it is currently under utilized in the treatment of cancer and may be an effective strategy for combining existing chemotherapeutics to enhance tumor cell kill. Indeed data presented herein showing that HYD1 treatment enhances melphalan cell death in vitro and in vivo suggest that initiating both cell death pathways is an advantageous strategy for enhancing tumor cell kill of conventional chemotherapy.

The present invention concerns isolated peptides polynucleotides encoding the peptides compositions containing these peptides or polynucleotides and methods of using these peptides or encoding polynucleotides and operably linked promoters and compositions as inhibitors of 1 integrin mediated adhesion and or as inhibitors of aberrant cell growth e.g. as anti cancer agents through induction of cell death. In one embodiment the peptide comprises an amino acid sequence selected from among KIKMVISWKG HYD1 SEQ ID NO 1 AIAMVISWAG SEQ ID NO 2 HYD8 AIKMVISWAG SEQ ID NO 3 HYD6 AIKMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 4 HYD2 AKMVISW SEQ ID NO 5 AKMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 6 IAMVISW SEQ ID NO 7 IAMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 8 IKAVISW SEQ ID NO 9 IKAVISWKG SEQ ID NO 10 IKMAISW SEQ ID NO 11 IKMAISWKG SEQ ID NO 12 IKMVASW SEQ ID NO 13 IKMVASWKG SEQ ID NO 14 IKMVIAW SEQ ID NO 15 IKMVIAWKG SEQ ID NO 16 IKMVISA SEQ ID NO 17 IKMVISAKG SEQ ID NO 18 IKMVISW SEQ ID NO 19 IKMVISWAG SEQ ID NO 20 KMVISWKA SEQ ID NO 21 IKMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 22 HYD18 K HYD1 ISWKG SEQ ID NO 23 KAKMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 24 KIAMVISWAG SEQ ID NO 25 HYD7 KIAMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 26 KIKAVISWKG SEQ ID NO 27 KIKMAISWKG SEQ ID NO 28 KIKMV SEQ ID NO 29 KIKMVASWKG SEQ ID NO 30 KIKMVI SEQ ID NO 31 HYD16 KIKMVIAWKG SEQ ID NO 32 KIKMVIS SEQ ID NO 33 HYD15 KIKMVISAKG SEQ ID NO 34 KIKMVISW SEQ ID NO 35 HYD14 KIKMVISWAG SEQ ID NO 36 KIKMVISWK SEQ ID NO 37 HYD17 HYD1 G KIKMVISWKA SEQ ID NO 38 KMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 39 HYD9 LSWKG SEQ ID NO 40 HYD12 MVISWKG SEQ ID NO 41 HYD10 SWKG SEQ ID NO 42 HYD13 VISWKG SEQ ID NO 43 HYD11 WIKSMKIVKG SEQ ID NO 44 KMVIXW SEQ ID NO 46 IKMVISWXX SEQ ID NO 48 and KMVISWXX SEQ ID NO 49 wherein X is any amino acid traditional or non traditional amino acid . In another embodiment the peptide consists of the amino acid sequence. In another embodiment the peptide consists essentially of the amino acid sequence. In another embodiment the peptide is one listed in the figures herein. In one embodiment the peptide is one of the variants listed in A C or A C that is substituted with an alanine at one position and wherein another residue is substituted in place of the alanine. Preferably the residue is a conservative substitution.

Preferably the peptide comprises at least one D amino acid. More preferably each amino acid of the peptide is a D amino acid.

One aspect of the invention concerns a method of treating a proliferation disorder such as cancer in a human or animal subject comprising administering an effective amount of at least one peptide of the invention to the subject. In one embodiment the proliferation disorder is cancer. In another embodiment the proliferation disorder is cancer and the cancer cells are in suspension e.g. part of a circulating tumor cell CTC population and the peptides kill the CTC. In another embodiment the peptides of the invention prevent or delay onset of metastasis of the cancer cells e.g. to the bone . In one embodiment the disorder is mediated by cells that exhibit the cell adhesion induced drug resistance CAM DR phenotype.

Another aspect of the invention concerns a method of suppressing the growth of malignant cells comprising contacting the cells in vitro or in vivo with an effective amount of at least one peptide of the invention. In one embodiment the malignant cells exhibit the CAM DR phenotype.

Another aspect of the invention concerns a method of inducing apoptosis in malignant cells comprising contacting the cells in vitro or in vivo with an effective amount of at least one peptide of the invention or a polynucleotide comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding the peptide wherein the polynucleotide is operably linked to a promoter . In one embodiment the malignant cells are in suspension e.g. part of a circulating tumor cell CTC population and the peptides kill the CTC. In another embodiment of the in vivo method the peptides of the invention prevent or delay onset of metastasis e.g. to the bone . In one embodiment the malignant cells exhibit the CAM DR phenotype. Without being bound by theory it is proposed that the peptides of the invention induce cell death by cell surface binding and activation of a non caspase dependent cell death mechanism involving autophagy.

Another aspect of the invention concerns a method of inhibiting e.g. reducing interfering with or disrupting 1 integrin mediated adhesion comprising contacting cells in vitro or in vivo with an effective amount of at least one peptide of the invention or a polynucleotide comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding the peptide wherein the polynucleotide is operably linked to a promoter .

Another aspect of the invention concerns a method for increasing the efficacy of chemotherapy or radiation therapy in a subject comprising administering at least one agent that binds 1 integrin or inhibits e.g. disrupts or reduces 1 integrin mediated adhesion in the subject. Preferably the method further comprises administering the chemotherapy and or radiation treatment to the subject before during or after administration of the agent wherein the effectiveness of the treatment is increased. In one embodiment the agent is a peptide of the invention or a polynucleotide encoding the peptide. Other examples of agents include VLA 4 antibody alpha 4 beta 1 integrin and integrin linked kinase inhibitors.

In another aspect the invention pertains to an adhesion trap comprising a substrate surface with a HYD1 peptide or fragment or variant thereof immobilized to the surface and a method of removing circulating tumor cells CTC from blood by contacting a subject s blood with the immobilized peptide.

Another aspect of the invention concerns a method of identifying modulators of peptide binding a screen for molecules that displace peptide binding the method comprising providing a candidate agent such as a chemical compound antibody nucleic acid or peptide and determining whether the agent inhibits e.g. disrupts prevents or interferes with the ability of a peptide of the invention HYD1 or a fragment or variant thereof to bind to 1 integrin on a cancer cell surface and or inhibit 1 integrin mediated adhesion in vitro or in vivo e.g. in an animal model . Preferably the peptide is labeled with a detectable moiety e.g. fluorescently to facilitate the determining step. The determining step can be carried out by contacting the candidate agent with the cells in the presence of the peptide. Optionally the peptides may be immobilized on a surface or in suspension.

In another aspect the invention concerns a method for detecting circulating tumor cells CTC . Thus the invention includes an in vitro screening assay for detecting CTC in a biological sample from a subject such as peripheral blood comprising obtaining a biological sample from a subject and determining whether the peptide of the invention binds to cells 1 integrin on the cell surface in the sample. Preferably the peptide is labeled with a detectable moiety e.g. fluorescently to facilitate the determining step. The peptide binding can be carried out using flow cytometry analysis or in tandem with CTC detection machines for example. Optionally the peptides may be immobilized on a surface or in suspension. In another embodiment the peptides of the invention can be tested for potency by determining their ability to prevent or interfere with the binding of labeled ligand to target cells. In this case the ligand is labeled and incubated in the presence of the test cells and unlabelled peptides.

Another aspect of the invention concerns an in vitro screening test for the presence of malignant cells in a mammalian tissue the test including obtaining a sample containing viable cells of the tissue culturing the sample under conditions promoting growth of the viable cells contained therein treating the cultured sample with a peptide of the invention and analyzing the treated sample by a method effective to determine percent apoptosis of cells as an indicator of presence of malignant cells in the sample.

The data presented herein show that the HYD1 peptide has anti tumor activity as a single agent i.e. with or without the addition of additional anti cancer agents . HYD1 is a D amino acid containing peptide kikmviswkg SEQ ID NO 1 . HYD1 was initially discovered via combinatorial peptide chemistry using a functional adhesion assay as a screening tool. This peptide has been shown to block beta 1 integrin mediated cell adhesion. The present inventors have determined that HYD1 induces apoptosis as a single agent in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore the mechanism of action is independent of caspase activation and experimental evidence suggests that HYD1 induces autophagy.

HYD1 was observed to induce apoptosis as measured by annexin V positive cells. H929 or 8226 cells were treated with varying doses of HYD1 for 24 hours and dead cells were measured by annexin V positivity as determined by FACS analysis. In addition HYD1 treatment reduces 8226 MM growth in vivo compared to vehicle control treatment. Tumor burden was measured by circulating lambda levels. On day 28 before drug treatment measurements were recorded for each individual mouse and subsequent values obtained weekly are represented as a ratio of day 28 day X day 28 . N 4 mice per group. HYD1 was administered I.P. at mg kg daily for 14 days starting day 28 . Melphalan was administered I.P. at 1.5 mg kg on day 29 and 33.

HYD1 is a peptide that binds and inhibits 1 integrin mediated adhesion. The present inventors have demonstrated that HYD1 potentiates melphalan induced cell death. Allowing direct contact between tumor cells and the bone marrow stroma cell line HS 5 is sufficient to confer a multi drug resistant phenotype. The inventors have demonstrated that HYD1 potentiates meiphalan induced cell death in multiple myeloma cell lines that are co cultured with the HS 5 cell line.

The present invention provides methods of increasing the efficacy of chemotherapy comprising administering an agent that binds 1 integrin to a human or animal patient in need thereof. In certain aspects the binding of 1 integrin by the administered agent inhibits 1 integrin mediated adhesion. The agent can be for example a peptide such as HYD1 or a fragment variant or analog thereof. Also provided is a peptide that increases the efficacy of chemotherapy wherein the peptide consists essentially of the HYD1 peptide or a fragment variant or analog thereof.

The present inventors propose that the bone marrow microenvironment which is characteristically rich in extracellular matrices provides a sanctuary for hematopoietic tumors to evade cell death induced by chemotherapy. Importantly the inventors have obtained data showing that inhibiting 1 integrin binding with the addition of an inhibitory peptide HYD1 enhances melphalan induced apoptosis in multiple myeloma cell lines. The enhancement of melphalan induced cell death caused by HYD1 treatment is most dramatic when myeloma cells are allowed direct contact with the bone marrow stroma cell line HS 5. 1 integrin inhibitory peptides represent good candidates for clinical development. Additionally small molecules that compete for peptide binding and are shown to be mechanistically similar to the 1 integrin inhibitory peptides will prove very useful for future clinical development as well.

HYD1 is a peptide that inhibits 1 integrin mediated adhesion. Recently the inventors demonstrated that HYD1 potentiates melphalan induced cell death. Allowing direct contact between tumor cells and the bone marrow stroma cell line HS 5 is sufficient to confer a multi drug resistant phenotype. The inventors have demonstrated that HYD1 potentiates melphalan induced cell death in multiple myeloma cell lines that are co cultured with the HS 5 cell line.

Sroka T. C. et al. 5 11 e1 e7 November 2006 is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety including any figures tables nucleic acid sequences amino acid sequences e.g. peptides and drawings.

One aspect of the subject invention provides methods for using the peptides of the invention as inhibitors of 1 integrin mediated adhesion and or as anti proliferative agents. Thus in one embodiment the method of the invention comprises administering a peptide of the invention to cells in vitro or in vivo in an amount sufficient to achieve the desired result e.g. reduction of 1 integrin mediated adhesion. In another embodiment the method comprises administering a peptide of the invention to a human or animal subject in an amount effective to achieve the desired therapeutic result. In one embodiment more than one peptide of the invention is administered to the cells in vitro or in vivo. In a preferred embodiment the HYD1 peptide or a functional fragment or variant thereof is administered.

In another aspect the invention pertains to a composition referred to herein as an adhesion trap comprising a substrate also referred to herein as a surface or support with a HYD1 peptide or fragment or variant thereof immobilized to the surface and a method of removing circulating tumor cells CTC from blood by contacting a subject s blood with the immobilized peptide wherein the immobilized peptide binds CTC present referred to herein as adhesion trapping . Binding of CTC by the immobilized peptide can occur in vitro including ex vivo or in vivo e.g. wherein the adhesion trap is part of an implant or in dwelling device . Preferably the binding of CTC occur in vitro and the blood containing a reduced number of CTC preferably no CTC is then returned recycled to the patient similar to a dialysis procedure machines similar to dialysis machines can be utilized . Optionally the peptide is labeled with a detectable moiety such that binding of CTC by the peptides will be readily detectable.

Another aspect of the invention concerns a method of identifying modulators of peptide binding a screen for molecules that displace peptide binding . Agents that are identified as being capable of competing with the HYD1 peptides of the invention for binding to 1 integrin may have utility as cytotoxic agents for research or therapy e.g. for cancer treatment . The method comprising providing a candidate agent such as a chemical compound antibody nucleic acid or peptide and determining whether the agent inhibits e.g. disrupts prevents or interferes with the ability of a HYD1 peptide of the invention HYD1 or a fragment or variant thereof to bind to 1 integrin on a cell surface e.g. cancer cell surface and or inhibit 1 integrin mediated adhesion in vitro or in vivo e.g. in an animal model . Preferably the cell is a cancer cell such as a myeloma cell or a cell of other cancer types see for example Table 1 . Preferably the peptide is labeled with a detectable moiety e.g. a fluorescent tag such as SAM to facilitate the determining step. Examples of controls that may be utilized in carrying out the screening method include but are not limited to unlabeled HYD1 peptides HYD1 or a fragment or variant thereof scrambled peptides such as HYD1S 1 integrin blocking antibody and non specific surface antigen binding antibody such as CD138 for myeloma cells . Advantageously using the screening assay labeled HYD1 or fragments or variants thereof can be used to screen candidates such as small molecules on natural product libraries in a rapid high throughput fashion. Confocal microscopy has shown that FAM HYD1 binds to the cell surface. Furthermore this binding can be blocked by a 1 integrin blocking antibody. Fluorescence polarization FP analysis can be used to screen small molecule or natural product libraries for discovery of novel compounds that mimic the specific binding and potentially the biological activity of HYD1. The FP assay is based on the extent of depolarization of the free versus bond peptide which can be accurately measured on commercially available FP plate readers. Briefly FP analysis is based on the fact that if a small fluorescent molecule binds to a much greater sized receptor the ability of the probe to depolarize is significantly reduced. In summary a high throughput screen HTS can be used to bind small molecules prior to the addition of an HYD1 probe and molecules of interest can be identified by displacement of bond peptide with a corresponding increase in unbound peptide by FP analysis. An analogous high throughput binding assay based on fluorescence polarization which allows screening for small molecules that bind to the STAT3 SH2 domain is described in Schust J. and Berg T. 2004 Jul. 1 330 1 114 8. In contrast to the assay of the invention which is based on the binding of labeled HYD1 peptides to 1 integrin the basis of this assay is the binding of a fluorescein labeled phosphotyrosine peptide derived from the interleukin 6 receptor subunit gp130 to unphosphorylated STAT3 however the assays operations are similar.

In another aspect the invention concerns a screening method for detecting circulating tumor cells CTC . Thus the invention includes an in vitro screening assay for detecting CTC in a biological sample from a subject such as peripheral blood comprising obtaining a biological sample from a subject and determining whether the peptide of the invention binds to cells 1 integrin on the cell surface such as circulating prostate breast pancreas and lung cancer cells. Preferably the peptide is labeled with a detectable moiety e.g. a fluorescent tag such as SAM to facilitate the determining step. The determining can be carried out by contacting the peptides of the invention with the cells of the sample. For example if the sample is blood the blood can be placed in a heparinized tube to prevent clotting . Any preparatory or purification enrichment steps to facilitate the determining step will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art. For example red blood cells can be lysed and nucleated cells can be centrifuged into a pellet. Examples of controls that may be utilized in carrying out the screening method include but are not limited to unlabeled HYD1 peptides HYD1 or a fragment or variant thereof scrambled peptides such as HYD1S 1 integrin blocking antibody and non specific surface antigen binding antibody such as CD138 for myeloma cells . The peptide binding can be carried out using flow cytometry analysis or in tandem with CTC detection machines for example. Optionally the peptides may be immobilized on a surface or in suspension. Preferably one or more additional tests are carried out before during or after the determining step in order to confirm that the CTC are indeed cancer cells. In another embodiment the peptides of the invention can be tested for potency by determining their ability to prevent or interfere with the binding of labeled ligand to target cells. In this case the ligand is labeled and incubated in the presence of the test cells and unlabelled peptides. This screening test of the invention can be used to evaluate how well a patient e.g. a cancer patient is responding or will respond to a particular therapy e.g. tumor susceptibility to a given therapy . A discussion of the relevance and diagnostic value of CTC in cancer and methods for retrieval and testing of CTC for various markers is provided in Cristofanilli M. and Mendelsohn J. 2006 103 46 1703 1704 Smerage J. B. and Hayes D. F. et al. 2006 94 8 12 Mesker W. E. et al. 2006 28 4 141 150 and Muller V. et al. 2005 11 10 3678 3685. The screening method of the invention tests for peptide binding but other markers such as those described in the aforementioned publications may be tested for as well.

Another aspect of the invention concerns an in vitro screening test for the presence of malignant cells in a mammalian tissue the test including obtaining a biological sample containing viable cells of the tissue from a subject culturing the sample under conditions promoting growth of the viable cells contained therein treating the cultured sample with a peptide of the invention and analyzing the treated sample by a method effective to determine percent apoptosis of cells as an indicator of presence of malignant cells in the sample. This screening test of the invention can be used to evaluate how well a patient e.g. a cancer patient is responding or will respond to a particular therapy such as therapy with the HYD1 peptides of the invention .

Optionally the screening methods further comprise verifying that the subject is suffering from a cancer detected e.g. by assessing for the presence of one or more cancer symptoms detecting additional cancer markers detecting the presence of the cancer through an imaging modality such as X ray CT nuclear imaging PET and SPECT ultrasound MRI and or treating the subject for the cancer detected e.g. by surgery chemotherapy and or radiation .

Examples of detectable moieties usable as labels include but are not limited to the following radioisotopes e.g. H C S I I fluorescent labels e.g. FITC rhodamine lanthanide phosphors luminescent labels such as luminol enzymatic labels e.g. horseradish peroxidase beta galactosidase luciferase alkaline phosphatase acetylcholinestease biotinyl groups which can be detected by marked avidin e.g. streptavidin containing a fluorescent marker or enzymatic activity that can be detected by optical or calorimetric methods predetermined polypeptide epitopes recognized by a secondary reporter e.g. leucine zipper pair sequences binding sites for secondary antibodies metal binding domains epitope tags .

The screening assays and adhesion trapping method described above can be carried out on a solid support. The solid supports used may be those which are conventional for the purpose of assaying an analyte in a biological sample and are typically constructed of materials such as cellulose polysaccharide such as Sephadex and the like and may be partially surrounded by a housing for protection and or handling of the solid support. The solid support can be rigid semi rigid flexible elastic having shape memory etc. depending upon the desired application. The support comprising immobilized peptide can be brought into contact with a sample in vivo or in vitro ex vivo . When according to an embodiment of the invention the immobilized peptide is to be contacted with a sample without removing the sample from the body i.e. in vivo the support should be one which is harmless to the subject and may be in any form convenient for insertion into an appropriate part of the body. For example the support may be a probe made of polytetrafluoroethylene polystyrene or other rigid non harmful plastic material and having a size and shape to enable it to be introduced into a subject. The selection of an appropriate inert support is within the competence of those skilled in the art as are its dimensions for the intended purpose.

Further examples of substrate materials include agarose dextran Sepharose liposomes carboxymethyl cellulose polystyrene filter paper ion exchange resin plastic film plastic tube glass beads polyamine methyl vinyl ether maleic acid copolymer amino acid copolymer ethylene maleic acid copolymer nylon silk etc. The substrate may be in the shape of for example a tube test plate well beads disc sphere etc. Methods for immobilizing peptides to supports can be utilized. For example linkers disclosed herein as well as other linkers known in the art can be utilized to immobilize the HYD1 peptides of the invention HYD1 and functional fragments and variants thereof for example at the C or N terminus to the support.

A contacting step in the screening assays and adhesion trap of the invention can involve contacting combining or mixing the sample and the suspended or immobilized peptide such as a reaction vessel microvessel tube microtube well multi well plate or other solid support. In an embodiment of the invention the solid support to be contacted with the sample has an absorbent pad or membrane for lateral flow of the liquid medium to be assayed such as those available from Millipore Corp. Bedford Mass. including but not limited to Hi Flow Plus membranes and membrane cards and SureWick pad materials.

Diagnostic devices useful in carrying out the methods of the invention can be constructed in any form adapted for the intended use. Thus in one embodiment the device of the invention can be constructed as a disposable or reusable test strip or stick to be contacted with a biological sample blood for which binding of peptides to cells is to be determined. In another embodiment the device can be constructed using art recognized micro scale manufacturing techniques to produce needle like embodiments capable of being implanted or injected into an anatomical site for indwelling diagnostic applications. In other embodiments devices intended for repeated laboratory use can be constructed in the form of an elongated probe. In preferred embodiments the devices of the invention comprise a solid support such as a strip or dipstick with a surface that functions as a lateral flow matrix defining a flow path for a biological sample such as urine whole blood serum plasma peritoneal fluid or ascites.

The screening assays and adhesion trap method described herein can be carried out in a rapid high throughput fashion. In one embodiment the assay method is automated. In the screening assays and adhesion trap method described herein HYD1 and fragments and variants thereof may be arrayed on the solid support or multiple supports can be utilized for multiplex detection or analysis. Arraying refers to the act of organizing or arranging members of a library e.g. an array of different samples or an array of devices that target the same target molecules or different target molecules or other collection into a logical or physical array. Thus an array refers to a physical or logical arrangement of e.g. biological samples. A physical array can be any spatial format or physically gridded format in which physical manifestations of corresponding library members are arranged in an ordered manner lending itself to combinatorial screening. For example samples corresponding to individual or pooled members of a sample library can be arranged in a series of numbered rows and columns e.g. on a multi well plate. Similarly binding agents can be plated or otherwise deposited in microtitered e.g. 96 well 384 well or 1536 well plates or trays . Optionally in addition to HYD1 peptides other binding agents may be immobilized on the solid support.

Binding and or detection of cancer cells such CTC and other assays that are to be carried out on samples can be carried out simultaneously or sequentially with the binding and or detection of other target molecules and may be carried out in an automated fashion in a high throughput format.

Throughout the application the terms HYD1 and HYD 1 are used interchangeably referring to the same peptide KIKMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 1 preferably comprising all D amino acids kikmviswkg . Throughout the application the terms HYDS and HYD1S are used interchangeably referring to the same scrambled peptide of D amino acids wiksmkivkg SEQ ID NO 44 i.e. scrambled sequence of HYD1 used herein as a control.

As used herein the terms treatment and treating and grammatical variations thereof include therapy and prophylaxis. When used as a therapy the compounds of the invention by themselves or in conjunction with other agents alleviate or reduce one or more symptoms associated with a proliferation disorder e.g. cancer . Thus the treatment methods may or may not be curative in nature. When used as a prophylactic treatment the compounds of the invention by themselves or in conjunction with other agents delay the onset of and may prevent one or more symptoms associated with a proliferation disorder e.g. cancer or may prevent the genesis of the condition.

In one aspect the method of the invention is a method for treating a proliferation disorder such as cancer comprising administering an effective amount of a peptide of the invention to a subject in need thereof.

In another aspect the method of the invention is a method for inhibiting the growth of cancer cells in vitro or in vivo comprising administering an effective amount of a peptide of the invention to the cancer cells.

In another aspect the subject invention provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising at least one isolated peptide of the invention or a polynucleotide encoding the peptide and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In one embodiment the pharmaceutical composition comprises host cells that have been genetically modified to express the polynucleotide encoding the peptide.

By inhibiting the growth of cells proliferating in an aberrant manner the methods peptides and compositions of the present invention can be used to treat a number of cell proliferation disorders such as cancers including but not limited to leukemias and lymphomas such as acute lymphocytic leukemia acute non lymphocytic leukemias chronic lymphocytic leukemia chronic myelogenous leukemia Hodgkin s Disease non Hodgkin s lymphomas and multiple myeloma childhood solid tumors such as brain tumors neuroblastoma retinoblastoma Wilms Tumor bone tumors and soft tissue sarcomas common solid tumors of adults such as lung cancer colon and rectum cancer breast cancer prostate cancer urinary cancers uterine cancers bladder cancers oral cancers pancreatic cancer melanoma and other skin cancers stomach cancer ovarian cancer brain tumors liver cancer laryngeal cancer thyroid cancer esophageal cancer and testicular cancer. The methods of the subject invention can be carried out in vivo or in vitro to inhibit the growth of cells e.g. cancer cells in humans and non human mammals. Treatment for a proliferation disorder can proceed by the peptide s anti proliferative activity such as pro apoptotic activity or by other mechanisms. In one embodiment the proliferation disorder is one on which the peptide s acts by binding to 1 integrin and or inhibits 1 integrin signaling and or 1 integrin mediated adhesion.

Peptides of the invention having the capability to modulate e.g. reduce or eliminate 1 integrin signaling in vitro and or in vivo or to inhibit the growth of cancer cells in vitro and or in vivo by inhibition of 1 integrin signaling or a different mechanism would be considered to have the desired biological activity in accordance with the subject invention. For therapeutic applications without being bound by theory peptides of the subject invention can have the capability to inhibit 1 integrin signaling or 1 integrin mediated adhesion or to inhibit the growth of cancer cells in vitro and or in vivo by inhibition of 1 integrin signaling or 1 integrin mediated adhesion or a different mechanism. Treatment for a proliferation disorder can proceed by the peptide s anti proliferative activity such as pro apoptotic activity regardless of underlying mechanism.

In one embodiment the proliferation disorder to be treated is a cancer producing a tumor characterized by 1 integrin signaling or 1 integrin mediated adhesion. Examples of susceptible cancer types include but are not limited to cancer of the breast pancreas prostate melanoma myeloma and lung. In another embodiment the proliferation disorder to be treated is a cancer producing a tumor characterized by the CAM DR phenotype.

In one embodiment the proliferation disorder to be treated is characterized by a proliferation of T cells such as autoimmune disease e.g. type 1 diabetes lupus and multiple sclerosis and pathological states such as graft rejection induced by the presentation of a foreign antigen such as a graft in response to a disease condition e.g. kidney failure . Other non malignant diseases characterized by proliferation of cells include cirrhosis of the liver and restenosis.

The methods of the present invention can be advantageously combined with at least one additional treatment method including but not limited to chemotherapy radiation therapy or any other therapy known to those of skill in the art for the treatment and management of proliferation disorders such as cancer.

While peptides of the invention can be administered to cells in vitro and in vivo as isolated agents it is preferred to administer these peptides as part of a pharmaceutical composition. The subject invention thus further provides compositions comprising a peptide of the invention in association with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The pharmaceutical composition can be adapted for various routes of administration such as enteral parenteral intravenous intramuscular topical subcutaneous and so forth. Administration can be continuous or at distinct intervals as can be determined by a person of ordinary skill in the art.

The peptides of the invention can be formulated according to known methods for preparing pharmaceutically useful compositions. Formulations are described in a number of sources which are well known and readily available to those skilled in the art. For example Martin E. W. 1995 Easton Pa. Mack Publishing Company 19ed. describes formulations which can be used in connection with the subject invention. Formulations suitable for administration include for example aqueous sterile injection solutions which may contain antioxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes that render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and nonaqueous sterile suspensions which may include suspending agents and thickening agents. The formulations may be presented in unit dose or multi dose containers for example sealed ampoules and vials and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the condition of the sterile liquid carrier for example water for injections prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions may be prepared from sterile powder granules tablets etc. It should be understood that in addition to the ingredients particularly mentioned above the compositions of the subject invention can include other agents conventional in the art having regard to the type of formulation in question.

Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts are organic acid addition salts formed with acids that form a physiological acceptable anion for example tosylate methanesulfonate acetate citrate malonate tartarate succinate benzoate ascorbate alpha ketoglutarate and alpha glycerophosphate. Suitable inorganic salts may also be formed including hydrochloride sulfate nitrate bicarbonate and carbonate salts.

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds may be obtained using standard procedures well known in the art for example by reacting a sufficiently basic compound such as an amine with a suitable acid affording a physiologically acceptable anion. Alkali metal for example sodium potassium or lithium or alkaline earth metal for example calcium salts of carboxylic acids can also be made.

As used herein the term analogs refers to compounds which are substantially the same as another compound but which may have been modified by for example adding side groups oxidation or reduction of the parent structure. Analogs of the HYD1 peptide and other peptides disclosed herein can be readily prepared using commonly known standard reactions. These standard reactions include but are not limited to hydrogenation alkylation acetylation and acidification reactions. Chemical modifications can be accomplished by those skilled in the art by protecting all functional groups present in the molecule and deprotecting them after carrying out the desired reactions using standard procedures known in the scientific literature Greene T. W. and Wuts P. G. M. Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons Inc. New York. 3rd Ed. pg. 819 1999 Honda T. et al. 1997 7 1623 1628 Honda T. et al. 1998 8 2711 2714 Konoike T. et al. 1997 62 960 966 Honda T. et al. 2000 43 4233 4246 each of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety . Analogs fragments and variants of the HYD1 peptide exhibiting the desired biological activity such as induction of apoptosis cytotoxicity cytostaticity induction of cell cycle arrest etc. can be identified or confirmed using cellular assays or other in vitro or in vivo assays. For example assays that detect 1 integrin signaling 1 integrin mediated adhesion ERK activation G M cell cycle arrest and or reduction of tumor growth may be utilized. Examples of assays to assess 1 integrin signaling 1 integrin adhesion and ERK activation are described in Gilcrease M. S. 2007 247 1 1 25 Larsen M. et al. 2006 18 5 463 471 Luo B. H. and T. A. Springer 2006 18 5 579 586.

The peptides of the invention are useful for various non therapeutic and therapeutic purposes. The peptides may be used for reducing aberrant cell growth in animals and humans. Because of such anti proliferative properties of the peptides they are useful in reducing unwanted cell growth in a wide variety of settings including in vitro and in vivo. In addition to their use in treatment methods the peptides of the invention are useful as agents for investigating the role of 1 integrin signaling and or 1 integrin mediated adhesion in cellular metabolism and controlling 1 integrin mediated malignant or non malignant cell growth in vitro or in vivo. They are also useful as standards and for teaching demonstrations.

Therapeutic application of the peptides and compositions comprising them can be accomplished by any suitable therapeutic method and technique presently or prospectively known to those skilled in the art. Further the peptides of the invention can be used as starting materials or intermediates for the preparation of other useful compounds and compositions.

Peptides of the invention may be locally administered at one or more anatomical sites such as sites of unwanted cell growth such as a tumor site e.g. injected or topically applied to the tumor optionally in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such as an inert diluent. Peptides of the invention may be systemically administered such as intravenously or orally optionally in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such as an inert diluent or an assimilable edible carrier for oral delivery. They may be enclosed in hard or soft shell gelatin capsules may be compressed into tablets or may be incorporated directly with the food of the patient s diet. For oral therapeutic administration the active compound may be combined with one or more excipients and used in the form of ingestible tablets buccal tablets troches capsules elixirs suspensions syrups wafers aerosol sprays and the like.

The tablets troches pills capsules and the like may also contain the following binders such as gum tragacanth acacia corn starch or gelatin excipients such as dicalcium phosphate a disintegrating agent such as corn starch potato starch alginic acid and the like a lubricant such as magnesium stearate and a sweetening agent such as sucrose fructose lactose or aspartame or a flavoring agent such as peppermint oil of wintergreen or cherry flavoring may be added. When the unit dosage form is a capsule it may contain in addition to materials of the above type a liquid carrier such as a vegetable oil or a polyethylene glycol. Various other materials may be present as coatings or to otherwise modify the physical form of the solid unit dosage form. For instance tablets pills or capsules may be coated with gelatin wax shellac or sugar and the like. A syrup or elixir may contain the active compound sucrose or fructose as a sweetening agent methyl and propylparabens as preservatives a dye and flavoring such as cherry or orange flavor. Of course any material used in preparing any unit dosage form should be pharmaceutically acceptable and substantially non toxic in the amounts employed. In addition the peptides may be incorporated into sustained release preparations and devices.

The active agent peptides of the invention may also be administered intravenously or intraperitoneally by infusion or injection. Solutions of the active agent can be prepared in water optionally mixed with a nontoxic surfactant. Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol liquid polyethylene glycols triacetin and mixtures thereof and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use these preparations can contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms.

The pharmaceutical dosage forms suitable for injection or infusion can include sterile aqueous solutions or dispersions or sterile powders comprising the compounds of the invention which are adapted for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable or infusible solutions or dispersions optionally encapsulated in liposomes. The ultimate dosage form should be sterile fluid and stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage. The liquid carrier or vehicle can be a solvent or liquid dispersion medium comprising for example water ethanol a polyol for example glycerol propylene glycol liquid polyethylene glycols and the like vegetable oils nontoxic glyceryl esters and suitable mixtures thereof. The proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the formation of liposomes by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersions or by the use of surfactants. Optionally the prevention of the action of microorganisms can be brought about by various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid thimerosal and the like. In many cases it will be preferable to include isotonic agents for example sugars buffers or sodium chloride. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by the inclusion of agents that delay absorption for example aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

Sterile injectable solutions are prepared by incorporating the peptides of the invention in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with various other ingredients enumerated above as required followed by filter sterilization. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum drying and the freeze drying techniques which yield a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient present in the previously sterile filtered solutions.

For topical administration the peptides may be applied in pure form i.e. when they are liquids. However it will generally be desirable to administer them topically to the skin as compositions in combination with a dermatologically acceptable carrier which may be a solid or a liquid.

The peptides of the subject invention can be applied topically to a subject s skin to reduce the size and may include complete removal of malignant or benign growths. The peptides of the invention can be applied directly to the growth. Preferably the peptide is applied to the growth in a formulation such as an ointment cream lotion solution tincture or the like. Drug delivery systems for delivery of pharmacological substances to dermal lesions can also be used such as that described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 167 649 Zook .

Useful solid carriers include finely divided solids such as talc clay microcrystalline cellulose silica alumina and the like. Useful liquid carriers include water alcohols or glycols or water alcohol glycol blends in which the peptide can be dissolved or dispersed at effective levels optionally with the aid of non toxic surfactants. Adjuvants such as fragrances and additional antimicrobial agents can be added to optimize the properties for a given use. The resultant liquid compositions can be applied from absorbent pads used to impregnate bandages and other dressings or sprayed onto the affected area using pump type or aerosol sprayers for example.

Thickeners such as synthetic polymers fatty acids fatty acid salts and esters fatty alcohols modified celluloses or modified mineral materials can also be employed with liquid carriers to form spreadable pastes gels ointments soaps and the like for application directly to the skin of the user. Examples of useful dermatological compositions which can be used to deliver the peptides to the skin are disclosed in Jacquet et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 608 392 Geria U.S. Pat. No. 4 992 478 Smith et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 559 157 and Woltzman U.S. Pat. No. 4 820 508 .

Useful dosages of the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention can be determined by comparing their in vitro activity and in vivo activity in animal models. Methods for the extrapolation of effective dosages in mice and other animals to humans are known to the art for example see U.S. Pat. No. 4 938 949.

Accordingly the present invention includes a pharmaceutical composition comprising a peptide of the invention or encoding polynucleotide operably linked with a promoter for expression in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Pharmaceutical compositions adapted for oral topical or parenteral administration comprising an amount of a compound of the invention constitute a preferred embodiment of the invention. The dose administered to a patient particularly a human in the context of the present invention should be sufficient to achieve a therapeutic response in the patient over a reasonable time frame without lethal toxicity and preferably causing no more than an acceptable level of side effects or morbidity. One skilled in the art will recognize that dosage will depend upon a variety of factors including the condition health of the subject the body weight of the subject kind of concurrent treatment if any frequency of treatment therapeutic ratio as well as the severity and stage of the pathological condition.

Depending upon the disorder or disease condition to be treated a suitable dose s may be that amount that will reduce proliferation or growth of the target cell s or induce cell death. In the context of cancer a suitable dose s is that which will result in a concentration of the active agent the compound of the invention in cancer tissue such as a malignant tumor which is known to achieve the desired response. The preferred dosage is the amount which results in maximum inhibition of cancer cell growth without unmanageable side effects. Administration of a peptide or encoding polynucleotide of the invention can be continuous or at distinct intervals as can be determined by a person of ordinary skill in the art.

To provide for the administration of such dosages for the desired therapeutic treatment in some embodiments pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can comprise between about 0.1 and 45 and especially 1 and 15 by weight of the total of one or more of the compounds of the invention based on the weight of the total composition including carrier or diluents. Illustratively dosage levels of the administered active ingredients can be intravenous 0.01 to about 20 mg kg intraperitoneal 0.01 to about 100 mg kg subcutaneous 0.01 to about 100 mg kg intramuscular 0.01 to about 100 mg kg orally 0.01 to about 200 mg kg and preferably about 1 to 100 mg kg intranasal instillation 0.01 to about 20 mg kg and aerosol 0.01 to about 20 mg kg of animal body weight.

Mammalian species which benefit from the disclosed methods include but are not limited to primates such as apes chimpanzees orangutans humans monkeys domesticated animals e.g. pets such as dogs cats guinea pigs hamsters Vietnamese pot bellied pigs rabbits and ferrets domesticated farm animals such as cows buffalo bison horses donkey swine sheep and goats exotic animals typically found in zoos such as bear lions tigers panthers elephants hippopotamus rhinoceros giraffes antelopes sloth gazelles zebras wildebeests prairie dogs koala bears kangaroo opossums raccoons pandas hyena seals sea lions elephant seals otters porpoises dolphins and whales. Other species that may benefit from the disclosed methods include fish amphibians avians and reptiles. As used herein the terms patient and subject are used interchangeably and are intended to include such human and non human species. Likewise in vitro methods of the present invention can be carried out on cells of such human and non human species.

Patients in need of treatment using the methods of the present invention can be identified using standard techniques known to those in the medical or veterinary professions as appropriate.

As used herein the terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. The cancer may be multi drug resistant MDR or drug sensitive. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia. More particular examples of such cancers include breast cancer prostate cancer colon cancer squamous cell cancer small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer cervical cancer ovarian cancer peritoneal cancer liver cancer e.g. hepatic carcinoma bladder cancer colorectal cancer endometrial carcinoma kidney cancer and thyroid cancer.

Other non limiting examples of cancers are basal cell carcinoma biliary tract cancer bone cancer brain and CNS cancer choriocarcinoma connective tissue cancer esophageal cancer eye cancer cancer of the head and neck gastric cancer intra epithelial neoplasm larynx cancer lymphoma including Hodgkin s and Non Hodgkin s lymphoma melanoma myeloma neuroblastoma oral cavity cancer e.g. lip tongue mouth and pharynx retinoblastoma rhabdomyosarcoma rectal cancer cancer of the respiratory system sarcoma skin cancer stomach cancer testicular cancer uterine cancer cancer of the urinary system as well as other carcinomas and sarcomas. Examples of cancer types that may potentially be treated using the peptides of the present invention are also listed in Table 1.

As used herein the term tumor refers to all neoplastic cell growth and proliferation whether malignant or benign and all pre cancerous and cancerous cells and tissues. For example a particular cancer may be characterized by a solid mass tumor. The solid tumor mass if present may be a primary tumor mass. A primary tumor mass refers to a growth of cancer cells in a tissue resulting from the transformation of a normal cell of that tissue. In most cases the primary tumor mass is identified by the presence of a cyst which can be found through visual or palpation methods or by irregularity in shape texture or weight of the tissue. However some primary tumors are not palpable and can be detected only through medical imaging techniques such as X rays e.g. mammography or magnetic resonance imaging MRI or by needle aspirations. The use of these latter techniques is more common in early detection. Molecular and phenotypic analysis of cancer cells within a tissue can usually be used to confirm if the cancer is endogenous to the tissue or if the lesion is due to metastasis from another site. The treatment methods of the invention can be utilized for early middle or late stage disease and acute or chronic disease. In some embodiments the tumor is characterized as one exhibiting the CAM DR phenotype.

According to the method of the subject invention a peptide of the invention can be administered to a patient by itself or co administered with one or more other agents such as another compound of the invention or a different agent or agents. Co administration can be carried out simultaneously in the same or separate formulations or consecutively. Furthermore according to the method of the subject invention peptides of the invention can be administered to a patient as adjuvant therapy. For example peptides of the invention can be administered to a patient in conjunction with chemotherapy.

Thus the peptides of the invention whether administered separately or as a pharmaceutical composition can include various other components as additives. Examples of acceptable components or adjuncts which can be employed in relevant circumstances include antioxidants free radical scavenging agents peptides growth factors antibiotics bacteriostatic agents immunosuppressives anticoagulants buffering agents anti inflammatory agents anti angiogenics anti pyretics time release binders anesthetics steroids and corticosteroids. Such components can provide additional therapeutic benefit act to affect the therapeutic action of the compounds of the invention or act towards preventing any potential side effects which may be posed as a result of administration of the compounds. The peptides of the subject invention can be conjugated to a therapeutic agent as well.

Additional agents that can be co administered to target cells in vitro or in vivo such as in a patient in the same or as a separate formulation include those that modify a given biological response such as immunomodulators. For example proteins such as tumor necrosis factor TNF interferon such as alpha interferon and beta interferon nerve growth factor NGF platelet derived growth factor PDGF and tissue plasminogen activator can be administered. Biological response modifiers such as lymphokines interleukins such as interleukin 1 IL 1 interleukin 2 IL 2 and interleukin 6 IL 6 granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF granulocyte colony stimulating factor G CSF or other growth factors can be administered. In one embodiment the methods and compositions of the invention incorporate one or more agents selected from the group consisting of anti cancer agents cytotoxic agents chemotherapeutic agents anti signaling agents and anti angiogenic agents.

Peptides as described herein may comprise residues of L amino acids D amino acids or any combination thereof. In one embodiment all amino acids of the peptide are D amino acids. Amino acids may be from natural or non natural sources provided that at least one amino group and at least one carboxyl group are present in the molecule. The 20 L amino acids commonly found in proteins are identified herein by the conventional one letter abbreviations known in the art and the corresponding D amino acids are generally designated by a lower case one letter symbol. Peptides may also contain one or more rare amino acids such as 4 hydroxyproline or hydroxylysine organic acids or amides and or derivatives of common amino acids such as amino acids having the C terminal carboxylate esterified e.g. benzyl methyl or ethyl ester or amidated and or having modifications of the N terminal amino group e.g. acetylation or alkoxycarbonylamino with or without any of a wide variety of side chain modifications and or substitutions e.g. methylation benzylation t butylation tosylation alkoxycarbonylamino and the liked . Such modifications and derivatives of a peptide sequence and others known to those of skill in the art are herein termed variants . Preferred derivatives include amino acids having an N acetyl group such that the amino group that represents the N terminus of the linear peptide is acetylated and or a C terminal amide group i.e. the carboxy terminus of the linear peptide is amidated . Residues other than common amino acids that may be present include but are not limited to penicillamine tetramethylene cysteine pentamethylene cysteine mercaptopropionic acid pentamethylene mercaptopropionic acid 2 mercaptobenzene 2 mercaptoaniline 2 mercaptoproline ornithine diaminobutyric acid aminoadipic acid m aminomethylbenzoic acid and diaminopropionic acid.

Functional fragments according to the subject invention can comprise a contiguous span of at least 4 consecutive amino acids of HYD1 KIKMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 1 or at least 4 consecutive amino acids of variants of HYD1. Peptides fragments according to the subject invention can be any integer in length from at least 4 consecutive amino acids to 1 amino acid less than a full length peptide e.g. 1 amino acid less than the full length HYD1 peptide . Thus in some embodiments functional fragments may be 4 5 6 7 8 or 9 amino acids in length e.g. a span of 4 5 6 7 8 or 9 consecutive amino acids KIKMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 1 .

Each fragment of the subject invention can also be described in terms of its N terminal and C terminal positions. For example combinations of N terminal to C terminal fragments of 6 contiguous amino acids to 1 amino acid less than the full length peptide of are included in the present invention. Thus a 6 consecutive amino acid fragment could occupy positions selected from the group consisting of 1 6 2 7 3 8 4 9 5 10 etc. It is noted that all ranges used to describe any embodiment of the present invention are inclusive unless specifically set forth otherwise and that fragments of a given peptide can be any integer in length provided that the length of the peptide fragment is at least one amino acid shorter than the full length peptide from which the fragment is derived.

Fragments as described herein can be obtained by cleaving the peptides of the invention with a proteolytic enzyme such as trypsin chymotrypsin or collagenase or with a chemical reagent such as cyanogen bromide CNBr . Alternatively peptide fragments can be generated in a highly acidic environment for example at pH 2.5. Such peptide fragments may be equally well prepared by chemical synthesis or using hosts transformed with an expression vector according to the invention. The transformed host cells contain a nucleic acid allowing the expression of these fragments under the control of appropriate elements for regulation and or expression of the polypeptide fragments.

In certain preferred embodiments fragments of the peptides disclosed herein retain at least one property or activity of the full length peptide from which the fragments are derived. Thus functional fragments of the invention may have one or more of the following properties or biological activities 1 specifically bind to antibodies specific for the full length peptide from which the fragment was derived such as HYD1 2 specifically bind 1 integrin 3 inhibit 1 integrin mediated cell adhesion 4 induce ERK signaling 5 cause apoptosis in target cells e.g. malignant cells by one or more mechanisms of action. Examples of assays to assess 1 integrin signaling 1 integrin adhesion and ERK activation are described in Gilcrease M. S. 2007 247 1 1 25 Larsen M. et al. 2006 18 5 463 471 Luo B. H. and T. A. Springer 2006 18 5 579 586.

Ligands that may find use with the peptides of the present invention can include but not be limited to sugars lectins antigens intercalators chelators biotin digoxygenin and combinations thereof. The particular choice of a dye as a labeling agent or cell uptake facilitator may depend upon physical characteristics such as absorption maxima emission maxima quantum yields chemical stability and solvent solubility. A large number of fluorescent and chemiluminescent compounds have been shown to be useful for labeling proteins and nucleic acids. Examples of compounds that may be used as the dye portion can include but not be limited to xanthene anthracene cyanine porphyrin and coumarin dyes. Examples of xanthene dyes that may be coupled to the peptides of the present invention can include but not be limited to fluorescein 6 carboxyfluorescein 6 FAM 5 carboxyfluorescein 5 Fam 5 or 6 carboxy 4 7 2 7 tetrachlorofluorescein TET 5 or 6 carboxy 4 5 2 4 5 7 hexachlorofluorescein HEX 5 or 6 carboxy 4 5 dichloro 2 7 dimethoxyfluorescein JOE 5 carboxy 2 4 5 7 tetrachlorofluorescein ZOE rhodol rhodamine tetramethylrhodamine TAMRA 4 7 dichlorotetramethyl rhodamine DTAMRA rhodamine X ROX and Texas Red. Examples of cyanine dyes that may find use with the peptides of the present invention can include but not be limited to Cy 3 Cy 3.5 Cy 5 Cy 5.5 Cy 7 and Cy 7.5. Other dyes that may find use with the peptides of the present invention can include but not be limited to energy transfer dyes composite dyes and other aromatic compounds that give fluorescent signals. Chemiluminescent compounds that may be used with the peptides of the present invention can include but not be limited to dioxetane and acridinium esters. It should also be understood that ligands and dyes are not mutually exclusive groups. For instance fluorescein is a well known example of a moiety that has been used as a fluorescent label and also as an antigen for labeled antibodies.

The peptides or fragments thereof of the invention may be monomeric or multimeric e.g. dimers trimers tetramers and higher multimers . Accordingly the present invention relates to monomers and multimers of the peptides of the invention their preparation and compositions containing them. Multimeric peptides of the subject invention can be derived from the same peptide sequence homomultimers or derived from different sequences disclosed herein heteromultimers . A homomultimer may contain peptides having identical or different amino acid sequences however these sequences are derived from the same original peptide e.g. HYD1 . A heteromultimer refers to a multimeric peptide containing one or more heterologous peptides i.e. peptides of different proteins in addition to the peptides of the invention. Thus a heteromultimer in the context of the subject invention can refer to a multimeric peptide that contains any combination of peptides of the invention. Alternatively a heteromultimeric peptide may comprise any peptide of the invention fused to a peptide or other element that forms a hydrophobic hydrophilic ionic and or covalent association.

Multimeric peptides as set forth herein may be formed by hydrophobic hydrophilic ionic and or covalent associations and or may be indirectly linked by for example liposome formation. Thus in one embodiment multimers of the invention such as for example homodimers or homotrimers are formed when peptides of the invention contact one another in solution. In another embodiment heteromultimers of the invention such as for example heterotrimers or heterotetramers are formed when peptides of the invention contact antibodies to the peptides of the invention including antibodies to the heterologous polypeptide sequence in a fusion protein of the invention in solution. In other embodiments multimers of the invention are formed by covalent associations with and or between the peptides of the invention. Examples include those peptide linkers described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 073 627 hereby incorporated by reference . Proteins comprising multiple polypeptides of the invention separated by peptide linkers may be produced using conventional recombinant DNA technology.

Other multimeric peptides can be formed by fusing the polypeptides of the invention to a leucine zipper or isoleucine zipper polypeptide sequence. Leucine zipper and isoleucine zipper domains are peptides that promote multimerization of the proteins in which they are found. Non limiting examples of leucine zipper domains suitable for producing soluble multimeric proteins of the invention are those described in PCT application WO 94 10308 hereby incorporated by reference. Recombinant fusion proteins comprising a peptide of the invention fused to a polypeptide sequence that dimerizes or trimerizes in solution are expressed in suitable host cells and the resulting soluble multimeric fusion protein is recovered from the culture supernatant using techniques known in the art.

Multimeric polypeptides can also be generated using chemical techniques known in the art. For example peptides desired to be contained in the multimers of the invention may be chemically cross linked using linker molecules and linker molecule length optimization techniques known in the art see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 478 925 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . Additionally multimeric polypeptides can be generated by introducing disulfide bonds between the cysteine residues located within the sequence of the peptides that are being used to construct the multimeric polypeptide see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 478 925 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . Further peptides of the invention may be routinely modified by the addition of cysteine or biotin to the C terminus or N terminus of the polypeptide and techniques known in the art may be applied to generate multimers containing one or more of these modified polypeptides see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 478 925 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . Additionally other techniques known in the art may be applied to generate liposomes containing the peptides components desired to be contained in the multimer of the invention see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 478 925 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety .

The peptides expressly provided herein as well as the fragments thereof may further comprise linker elements that facilitate the attachment of the fragments to other molecules amino acids or polypeptide sequences. The linkers can also be used to attach the peptides or fragments thereof to solid support matrices for use in affinity purification protocols. Non limiting examples of linkers suitable for the practice of the invention include chemical linkers such as those sold by Pierce Rockford Ill. or peptides that allow for the connection combinations of polypeptides see for example linkers such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 121 424 5 843 464 5 750 352 and 5 990 275 hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety .

In other embodiments the linker element can be an amino acid sequence a peptide linker . In some embodiments the peptide linker has one or more of the following characteristics a it allows for the free rotation of the peptides that it links relative to each other b it is resistant or susceptible to digestion cleavage by proteases and c it does not interact with the peptides it joins together. In various embodiments a multimeric construct according to the subject invention includes a peptide linker and the peptide linker is 5 to 60 amino acids in length. More preferably the peptide linker is 10 to 30 amino acids in length even more preferably the peptide linker is 10 to 20 amino acids in length. In some embodiments the peptide linker is 17 amino acids in length.

Multimeric constructs of the subject invention can also comprise a series of repeating elements optionally interspersed with other elements. As would be appreciated by one skilled in the art the order in which the repeating elements occur in the multimeric polypeptide is not critical and any arrangement of the repeating elements as set forth herein can be provided by the subject invention. Thus a multimeric construct according to the subject invention can provide a multimeric polypeptide comprising a series of peptides or peptide fragments that are optionally joined together by linker elements either chemical linker elements or amino acid linker elements .

A variant or variant peptide or peptide variant is to be understood to designate peptides exhibiting in relation to the HYD1 peptide certain modifications. These modifications can include a deletion addition or substitution of at least one amino acid e.g. one two three or more amino acids a truncation an extension a chimeric fusion fusion protein a mutation or polypeptides exhibiting post translational modifications. These modifications can occur anywhere in the peptide e.g. one or both ends and or in the middle. Among these homologous variant peptides are those comprising amino acid sequences exhibiting between at least or at least about 20.00 to 99.99 inclusive identity to the full length native or naturally occurring polypeptide are another aspect of the invention. The aforementioned range of percent identity is to be taken as including and providing written description and support for any fractional percentage in intervals of 0.01 between 20.00 and up to including 99.99 . These percentages are purely statistical and differences between two polypeptide sequences can be distributed randomly and over the entire sequence length. Thus variant peptides can have 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 or 99 percent identity with the peptide sequences of the instant invention. In a preferred embodiment a variant or modified peptide exhibits at least 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 or 99 percent identity to the HYD1 peptide. The percent identity is calculated with reference to the full length polypeptide or the length of the fragment of a particular SEQ ID NO that is identified. In all instances variant peptides retain at least one of the biological activities associated with the HYD1 peptide for example the ability to 1 specifically bind to antibodies specific for the full length peptide from which the fragment was derived such as HYD1 2 specifically bind 1 integrin 3 to inhibit 1 integrin mediated cell adhesion 4 to induce ERK signaling 5 cause apoptosis in target cells e.g. malignant cells regardless of mechanism of action e.g. caspase dependent and or caspase independent . Examples of assays to assess 1 integrin signaling 1 integrin adhesion and ERK activation are described in Gilcrease M. S. 2007 247 1 1 25 Larsen M. et al. 2006 18 5 463 471 Luo B. H. and T. A. Springer 2006 18 5 579 586.

For example one or more amino acid residues within the sequence can be substituted by another amino acid of a similar polarity which acts as a functional equivalent resulting in a silent alteration. In one aspect of the present invention conservative substitutions for an amino acid within the sequence may be selected from other members of the class to which the amino acid belongs see Table 2 . Conservative substitutions also include substitutions by amino acids having chemically modified side chains that do not eliminate the biological function of the resulting variant.

Fusion proteins according to the subject invention comprise one or more heterologous polypeptide sequences e.g. tags that facilitate purification of the peptides of the invention see for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 342 362 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety Altendorf et al. 1999 WWW 2000 Structure and Function of the FComplex of the ATP Synthase from Biology 203 19 28 The Co. of Biologists Ltd. G.B. Baneyx 1999 Recombinant Protein Expression in Biotechnology 10 411 21 Elsevier Science Ltd. Eihauer et al. 2001 The FLAG Peptide a Versatile Fusion Tag for the Purification of Recombinant Proteins 49 455 65 Jones et al. 1995 707 3 22 Jones et al. 1995 Current Trends in Molecular Recognition and Bioseparation 707 3 22 Elsevier Science B. V. Margolin 2000 Green Fluorescent Protein as a Reporter for Macromolecular Localization in Bacterial Cells 20 62 72 Academic Press Puig et al. 2001 The Tandem Affinity Purification TAP Method A General Procedure of Protein Complex Purification 24 218 29 Academic Press Sassenfeld 1990 Engineering Proteins for Purification TibTech 8 88 93 Sheibani 1999 Prokaryotic Gene Fusion Expression Systems and Their Use in Structural and Functional Studies of Proteins . 29 1 77 90 Marcel Dekker Inc. Skerra et al. 1999 Applications of a Peptide Ligand for Streptavidin the Strep tag 16 79 86 Elsevier Science B.V. Smith 1998 Cookbook for Eukaryotic Protein Expression Yeast Insect and Plant Expression Systems The Scientist 12 22 20 Smyth et al. 2000 Eukaryotic Expression and Purification of Recombinant Extracellular Matrix Proteins Carrying the Strep II Tag 139 49 57 Unger 1997 Show Me the Money Prokaryotic Expression Vectors and Purification Systems 11 17 20 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties or commercially available tags from vendors such as such as STRATAGENE La Jolla Calif. NOVAGEN Madison Wis. QIAGEN Inc. Valencia Calif. or InVitrogen San Diego Calif. .

In other embodiments peptides of the subject invention can be fused to heterologous polypeptide sequences that have adjuvant activity a polypeptide adjuvant . Non limiting examples of such polypeptides include heat shock proteins hsp see for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 524 825 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety .

Peptides as described herein may be synthesized by methods well known in the art including recombinant DNA methods and chemical synthesis. Chemical synthesis may generally be performed using standard solution phase or solid phase peptide synthesis techniques in which a peptide linkage occurs through the direct condensation of the amino group of one amino acid with the carboxy group of the other amino acid with the elimination of a water molecule. Peptide bond synthesis by direct condensation as formulated above requires suppression of the reactive character of the amino group of the first and of the carboxyl group of the second amino acid. The masking substituents must permit their ready removal without inducing breakdown of the labile peptide molecule.

In solution phase synthesis a wide variety of coupling methods and protecting groups may be used see Gross and Meienhofer eds. The Peptides Analysis Synthesis Biology Vol. 1 4 Academic Press 1979 Bodansky and Bodansky The Practice of Peptide Synthesis 2d ed. Springer Verlag 1994 . In addition intermediate purification and linear scale up are possible. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that solution synthesis requires consideration of main chain and side chain protecting groups and activation method. In addition careful segment selection is necessary to minimize racemization during segment condensation. Solubility considerations are also a factor.

Solid phase peptide synthesis uses an insoluble polymer for support during organic synthesis. The polymer supported peptide chain permits the use of simple washing and filtration steps instead of laborious purifications at intermediate steps. Solid phase peptide synthesis may generally be performed according to the method of Merrifield et al. 1963 85 2149 which involves assembling a linear peptide chain on a resin support using protected amino acids. Solid phase peptide synthesis typically utilizes either the Boc or Fmoc strategy which are well known in the art.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that in solid phase synthesis deprotection and coupling reactions must go to completion and the side chain blocking groups must be stable throughout the synthesis. In addition solid phase synthesis is generally most suitable when peptides are to be made on a small scale.

Acetylation of the N terminal can be accomplished by reacting the final peptide with acetic anhydride before cleavage from the resin. C amidation is accomplished using an appropriate resin such as methylbenzhydrylamine resin using the Boc technology.

The peptides disclosed here in may be modified by attachment of a second molecule that confers a desired property upon the peptide such as increased half life in the body for example pegylation. Such modifications also fall within the scope of the term variant as used herein.

Covalent attachment of a molecule or solid support may generally be achieved by first reacting the support material with a bifunctional reagent that will also react with a functional group such as a hydroxyl thiol carboxyl ketone or amino group on the modulating agent. A preferred method of generating a linkage is via amino groups using glutaraldehyde. A peptide may be linked to cellulose via ester linkages. Similarly amide linkages may be suitable for linkage to other molecules such as keyhole limpet hemocyanin or other support materials.

Although peptides and other 1 integrin inhibitors as described herein may preferentially bind to specific tissues or cells and thus may be sufficient to target a desired site in vivo it may be beneficial for certain applications to include an additional targeting agent. Accordingly a targeting agent may also or alternatively be linked to a peptide or other 1 integrin inhibitor to facilitate targeting to one or more specific tissues. As used herein a targeting agent may be any substance such as a compound or cell that when linked to a peptide or other 1 integrin inhibitor enhances the transport of the inhibitor to a target tissue thereby increasing the local concentration of the inhibitor. Targeting agents include antibodies or fragments thereof receptors ligands and other molecules that bind to cells of or in the vicinity of the target tissue. Known targeting agents include serum hormones antibodies against cell surface antigens lectins adhesion molecules tumor cell surface binding ligands steroids cholesterol lymphokines fibrinolytic enzymes and those drugs and proteins that bind to a desired target site.

For certain embodiments it may be beneficial to also or alternatively link a drug to a peptide or other beta 1 integrin inhibitor. As used herein the term drug refers to any bioactive agent intended for administration to a human or non human mammal to prevent or treat a disease or other undesirable condition. Drugs include hormones growth factors proteins peptides and other compounds. The use of certain specific drugs within the context of the present invention is discussed below.

Within certain aspects of the present invention one or more peptides or other beta 1 integrin inhibitors as described herein may be present within a pharmaceutical composition. A pharmaceutical composition comprises one or more peptides or other beta 1 integrin inhibitors in combination with one or more pharmaceutically or physiologically acceptable carriers diluents or excipients. Such compositions may comprise buffers e.g. neutral buffered saline or phosphate buffered saline carbohydrates e.g. glucose mannose sucrose or dextrans mannitol proteins polypeptides or amino acids such as glycine antioxidants chelating agents such as EDTA or glutathione adjuvants e.g. aluminum hydroxide and or preservatives. Within yet other embodiments compositions of the present invention may be formulated as a lyophilizate. A peptide may but need not be encapsulated within liposomes using well known technology. Compositions of the present invention may be formulated for any appropriate manner of administration including for example topical oral nasal intravenous intracranial intraperitoneal subcutaneous or intramuscular administration. For certain topical applications formulation as a cream or lotion using well known components is preferred.

Various techniques may be utilized to facilitate delivery of the HYD1 peptides of the invention and nucleic acids encoding them to the target cells in vitro including ex vivo and in vivo Cellular Drug Delivery Principles and Practice edited by Lu D. R. and Oie S. Human Press Totowa N.J. 2004 . Optionally it may be desirable to facilitate delivery of the peptides of the invention through the outer cell membrane. Various protein carrier molecules may be coupled to the peptides of the invention to assist penetration through biological membranes. For example small regions e.g. 9 16 amino acids of proteins called protein transduction domains PTDs cell penetrating peptides CPP possess the ability to traverse biological membranes through protein transduction Barnett E. M. et al. 2006 47 2589 2595 Schwarze S. R. et al. 1999 285 5433 1569 1572 Wadia J. S and Dowdy S. F. 2005 57 4 579 596 Wadia J. S and Dowdy S. F. 2002 13 1 52 56 Ho A. et al. 2001 61 474 477 Futaki et al. 2001 February 276 8 5836 5840 Cao G. et al. 2002 22 13 5423 5431 Becker Hapk M. et al. Methods 2001 24 247 256 Snyder E. L. and Dowdy S. F. 2001 3 147 152 Lewin M. et al. 2000 18 410 414 Tung C. H. et al. 2002 10 3609 3614 Richard J. P. et al. 30 2002 epub ahead of print . Transduction can occur in a receptor and transporter independent fashion that appears to target the lipid bilayer directly. Proteins peptides and compounds that are linked to PTDs e.g. covalently have the capability to traverse outer cell membranes. Preferably the delivery peptide is a trans activating transcriptional activator TAT peptide or an Antennapedia ANT peptide or a derivative of either. PTDs can be linked to the peptides of the subject invention for transport across the cell membrane. One well characterized PTD is the human immunodeficient virus HIV 1 Tat peptide see for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 804 604 5 747 641 5 674 980 5 670 617 and 5 652 122 . Peptides such as the homeodomain of antennapedia ANTP and arginine rich peptides display similar properties can be employed. VP22 a tegument protein from Herpes simplex virus type 1 HSV 1 also has the ability to transport proteins across a cell membrane and may be coupled to the peptides of the invention.

Furthermore some protein carrier molecules such as PTDs may be used to promote efficient delivery of genetic material to cells in vitro including ex vivo or in vivo see for example Eguchi A. et al. 2001 276 28 26204 26210 Torchilin V. P. et al. 2001 98 15 8786 9791 . Such molecules can be coupled to viral and non viral gene delivery vectors for delivery of nucleic acids encoding peptides such as those of the invention Lehmusvaara S. et al. 2006 40 5 573 576 . TAT based polyplexes can also been utilized and should be particularly beneficial in cases that require surface presentation of membrane active or cell specific targeting peptides Manickam D. S. et al. 2005 102 293 306 . Accordingly such agents can be coupled to synthetic vectors such as liposomes for delivery of HYD1 peptides or nucleic acids encoding the peptides.

The subject invention also provides polynucleotides comprising nucleotide sequences encoding the peptides of the invention. Polynucleotides can be administered to cells or subjects and expressed in place of the peptides themselves. The subject invention also provides genetic constructs comprising a polynucleotide sequence of the invention. Genetic constructs of the subject invention can also contain additional regulatory elements such as promoters and enhancers and optionally selectable markers. In one embodiment host cells that have been genetically modified with a polynucleotide encoding at least one peptide of the invention are administered to a subject to treat a proliferation disorder and or to reduce the growth of malignant cells. The polynucleotide is expressed by the host cells thereby producing the peptides within the subject. Preferably the host cells are allogeneic or autogeneic to the subject.

Also within the scope of the subject instant invention are vectors or expression cassettes containing genetic constructs as set forth herein or polynucleotides encoding the peptides operably linked to regulatory elements. The vectors and expression cassettes may contain additional transcriptional control sequences as well. The vectors and expression cassettes may further comprise selectable markers. The expression cassette may contain at least one additional gene operably linked to control elements to be co transformed into the organism. Alternatively the additional gene s and control element s can be provided on multiple expression cassettes. Such expression cassettes are provided with a plurality of restriction sites for insertion of the sequences of the invention to be under the transcriptional regulation of the regulatory regions. The expression cassette s may additionally contain selectable marker genes operably linked to control elements.

The expression cassette will include in the 5 3 direction of transcription a transcriptional and translational initiation region a DNA sequence of the invention and a transcriptional and translational termination regions. The transcriptional initiation region the promoter may be native or analogous or foreign or heterologous to the host cell. Additionally the promoter may be the natural sequence or alternatively a synthetic sequence. By foreign is intended that the transcriptional initiation region is not found in the native cell into which the transcriptional initiation region is introduced. As used herein a chimeric gene comprises a coding sequence operably linked to a transcriptional initiation region that is heterologous to the coding sequence.

Another aspect of the invention provides vectors for the cloning and or the expression of a polynucleotide sequence taught herein. Vectors of this invention can also comprise elements necessary to allow the expression and or the secretion of the nucleotide sequences in a given host cell. The vector can contain a promoter signals for initiation and for termination of translation as well as appropriate regions for regulation of transcription. In certain embodiments the vectors can be stably maintained in the host cell and can optionally contain signal sequences directing the secretion of translated protein. These different elements are chosen according to the host cell used. Vectors can integrate into the host genome or optionally be autonomously replicating vectors.

The subject invention also provides for the expression of a peptide fragment or variant encoded by a polynucleotide sequence disclosed herein comprising the culture of a host cell transformed with a polynucleotide of the subject invention under conditions that allow for the expression of the peptide and optionally recovering the expressed peptide.

The disclosed polynucleotide sequences can also be regulated by a second nucleic acid sequence so that the peptide is expressed in a host transformed with the recombinant DNA molecule. For example expression of a peptide may be controlled by any promoter enhancer element known in the art. Promoters which may be used to control expression include but are not limited to the CMV IE promoter the SV40 early promoter region Bernoist and Chambon 1981290 304 310 the promoter contained in the 3 long terminal repeat of Rous sarcoma virus Yamamoto et al. 198022 787 797 the herpes simplex thymidine kinase promoter Wagner et al. 198178 1441 1445 the regulatory sequences of the metallothionein gene Brinster et al. 1982296 39 42 prokaryotic vectors containing promoters such as the lactamase promoter Villa Kamaroff et al. 197875 3727 3731 or the tac promoter DeBoer et al. 198380 21 25 see also Useful proteins from recombinant bacteria in 1980 242 74 94 plant expression vectors comprising the nopaline synthetase promoter region Herrera Estrella et al. 1983303 209 213 or the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S RNA promoter Gardner et al. 1981 Nucl. Acids Res. 9 2871 and the promoter of the photosynthetic enzyme ribulose biphosphate carboxylase Herrera Estrella et al. 1984 310 115 120 promoter elements from yeast or fungi such as the Gal 4 promoter the ADC alcohol dehydrogenase promoter PGK phosphoglycerol kinase promoter and or the alkaline phosphatase promoter.

The vectors according to the invention are for example vectors of plasmid or viral origin. In a specific embodiment a vector is used that comprises a promoter operably linked to a protein or peptide encoding nucleic acid sequence contained within the disclosed polynucleotide sequences one or more origins of replication and optionally one or more selectable markers e.g. an antibiotic resistance gene . Expression vectors comprise regulatory sequences that control gene expression including gene expression in a desired host cell. Exemplary vectors for the expression of the peptides of the invention include the pET type plasmid vectors Promega or pBAD plasmid vectors Invitrogen . Furthermore the vectors according to the invention are useful for transforming host cells so as to clone or express the polynucleotide sequences of the invention. Examples of suitable viral vectors include lentivirus adenovirus adeno associated virus and pox virus.

The invention also encompasses the host cells transformed by a vector according to the invention. These cells may be obtained by introducing into host cells a nucleotide sequence inserted into a vector as defined above and then culturing the cells under conditions allowing the replication and or the expression of the polynucleotide sequences of the subject invention.

The host cell may be chosen from eukaryotic or prokaryotic systems such as for example bacterial cells Gram negative or Gram positive yeast cells for example or animal cells such as Chinese hamster ovary CHO cells plant cells and or insect cells using baculovirus vectors. In some embodiments the host cells for expression of the peptides include and are not limited to those taught in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 319 691 6 277 375 5 643 570 or 5 565 335 each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety including all references cited within each respective patent.

Furthermore a host cell strain may be chosen which modulates the expression of the inserted sequences or modifies and processes the gene product in the specific fashion desired. Expression from certain promoters can be elevated in the presence of certain inducers thus expression of the genetically engineered polypeptide may be controlled. Furthermore different host cells have characteristic and specific mechanisms for the translational and post translational processing and modification e.g. glycosylation phosphorylation of proteins. Appropriate cell lines or host systems can be chosen to ensure the desired modification and processing of the foreign protein expressed. For example expression in a bacterial system can be used to produce an unglycosylated core protein product. Expression in yeast will produce a glycosylated product. Expression in mammalian cells can be used to ensure native glycosylation of a heterologous protein. Furthermore different vector host expression systems may effect processing reactions to different extents.

Methods of introducing polynucleotides into individuals for expression are well known to the skilled artisan. For example DNA can be injected into skeletal muscle or other somatic tissues e.g. intramuscular injection . Cationic liposomes or biolistic devices such as a gene gun can be used to deliver DNA. Alternatively iontophoresis and other means for transdermal transmission can be used for the introduction of DNA into an individual.

Viral vectors for use in the subject invention can have a portion of the viral genome that is deleted to introduce new genes without destroying infectivity of the virus. The viral vector of the present invention is typically a non pathogenic virus. At the option of the practitioner the viral vector and or promoter can be selected so as to infect a specific cell or tissue type e.g. tissue specific promoters . Alternatively a viral vector can be selected that is able to infect any cell in the individual. General strategies for construction of vaccinia virus expression vectors are known in the art see for example Smith and Moss Bio Techniques November December 306 312 1984 U.S. Pat. No. 4 738 846 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety .

Compositions comprising the subject polynucleotides can include appropriate nucleic acid vaccine vectors plasmids which are commercially available e.g. Vical San Diego Calif. or other nucleic acid vectors plasmids which are also commercially available e.g. Valenti Burlingame Calif. . Alternatively compositions comprising viral vectors and polynucleotides according to the subject invention are provided by the subject invention. In addition the compositions can include a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier e.g. saline. The pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are well known in the art and also are commercially available. For example such acceptable carriers are described in E. W. Martin s Mack Publishing Company Easton Pa.

The isolated peptide of embodiment 1 selected from among AIAMVISWAG SEQ ID NO 2 HYD8 AIKMVISWAG SEQ ID NO 3 HYD6 AIKMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 4 HYD2 AKMVISW SEQ ID NO 5 AKMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 6 IAMVISW SEQ ID NO 7 IAMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 8 IKAVISW SEQ ID NO 9 IKAVISWKG SEQ ID NO 10 IKMAISW SEQ ID NO 11 IKMAISWKG SEQ ID NO 12 IKMVASW SEQ ID NO 13 IKMVASWKG SEQ ID NO 14 IKMVIAW SEQ ID NO 15 IKMVIAWKG SEQ ID NO 16 IKMVISA SEQ ID NO 17 IKMVISAKG SEQ ID NO 18 IKMVISW SEQ ID NO 19 IKMVISWAG SEQ ID NO 20 KMVISWKA SEQ ID NO 21 IKMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 22 HYD18 K HYD1 ISWKG SEQ ID NO 23 KAKMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 24 KIAMVISWAG SEQ ID NO 25 HYD7 KIAMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 26 KIKAVISWKG SEQ ID NO 27 KIKMAISWKG SEQ ID NO 28 KIKMV SEQ ID NO 29 KIKMVASWKG SEQ ID NO 30 KIKMVI SEQ ID NO 31 HYD16 KIKMVIAWKG SEQ ID NO 32 KIKMVIS SEQ ID NO 33 HYD15 KIKMVISAKG SEQ ID NO 34 KIKMVISW SEQ ID NO 35 HYD14 KIKMVISWAG SEQ ID NO 36 KIKMVISWK SEQ ID NO 37 HYD17 HYD1 G KIKMVISWKA SEQ ID NO 38 KMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 39 HYD9 LSWKG SEQ ID NO 40 HYD12 MVISWKG SEQ ID NO 41 HYD10 SWKG SEQ ID NO 42 HYD13 VISWKG SEQ ID NO 43 HYD11 WIKSMKIVKG SEQ ID NO 44 KMVIXW SEQ ID NO 46 IKMVISWXX SEQ ID NO 48 and KMVISWXX SEQ ID NO 49 wherein X is any amino acid.

The isolated peptide of embodiment 1 or 2 wherein the peptide is modified by the addition of biotin cystein or carboxyfluorescein FAM to the C terminus or N terminus of the peptide.

The isolated peptide of any of embodiments 1 3 wherein the peptide comprises at least one D amino acid.

An isolated polynucleotide comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding the peptide of any of embodiment 1 4.

A pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one peptide or polynucleotide according to any of embodiments 1 5 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

A method of treating a proliferation disorder in a subject comprising administering an effective amount of at least one isolated peptide or a polynucleotide encoding the at least one peptide to the subject wherein the at least one peptide is the HYD1 peptide or a functional fragment or variant thereof.

The method of embodiment 9 wherein the at least one peptide is selected from among KIKMVISWKG HYD1 SEQ ID NO 1 AIAMVISWAG SEQ ID NO 2 HYD8 AIKMVISWAG SEQ ID NO 3 HYD6 AIKMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 4 HYD2 AKMVISW SEQ ID NO 5 AKMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 6 IAMVISW SEQ ID NO 7 IAMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 8 IKAVISW SEQ ID NO 9 IKAVISWKG SEQ ID NO 10 IKMAISW SEQ ID NO 1 IKMAISWKG SEQ ID NO 12 IKMVASW SEQ ID NO 13 IKMVASWKG SEQ ID NO 14 IKMVIAW SEQ ID NO 15 IKMVIAWKG SEQ ID NO 16 IKMVISA SEQ ID NO 17 IKMVISAKG SEQ ID NO 18 IKMVISW SEQ ID NO 19 IKMVISWAG SEQ ID NO 20 KMVISWKA SEQ ID NO 21 IKMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 22 HYD18 K HYD1 ISWKG SEQ ID NO 23 KAKMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 24 KIAMVISWAG SEQ ID NO 25 HYD7 KIAMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 26 KIKAVISWKG SEQ ID NO 27 KIKMAISWKG SEQ ID NO 28 KIKMV SEQ ID NO 29 KIKMVASWKG SEQ ID NO 30 KIKMVI SEQ ID NO 31 HYD16 KIKMVIAWKG SEQ ID NO 32 KIKMVIS SEQ ID NO 33 HYD15 KIKMVISAKG SEQ ID NO 34 KIKMVISW SEQ ID NO 35 HYD14 KIKMVISWAG SEQ ID NO 36 KIKMVISWK SEQ ID NO 37 HYD17 HYD1 G KIKMVISWKA SEQ ID NO 38 KMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 39 HYD9 LSWKG SEQ ID NO 40 HYD12 MVISWKG SEQ ID NO 41 HYD10 SWKG SEQ ID NO 42 HYD13 VISWKG SEQ ID NO 43 HYD11 WIKSMKIVKG SEQ ID NO 44 KMVIXW SEQ ID NO 46 IKMVISWXX SEQ ID NO 48 and KMVISWXX SEQ ID NO 49 wherein X is any amino acid.

The method of embodiment 9 or 10 wherein the at least one peptide is modified by the addition of biotin cystein or carboxyfluorescein FAM to the C terminus or N terminus of the peptide.

The method of any of embodiments 9 11 wherein the at least one peptide comprises at least one D amino acid.

The method of any of embodiments 9 13 wherein the at least one peptide is administered locally at the site of the proliferation disorder.

The method of any of embodiments 9 14 wherein the proliferation disorder is cancer and wherein the at least one peptide induces cell death in circulating tumor cells.

The method of any of embodiments 9 15 wherein the proliferation disorder is cancer and wherein the at least one peptide prevents or delays onset of metastasis to bone.

The method of any of embodiments 9 13 wherein the subject is not suffering from the proliferation disorder and wherein the at least one peptide is administered to delay onset of the proliferation disorder.

The method of any of embodiments 9 19 further comprising administering at least one anti cancer agent to the subject before during or after said administering of the at least one peptide.

A method of suppressing the growth of or inducing apoptosis in malignant cells said method comprising contacting the cells with an effective amount of at least one peptide or polynucleotide encoding the at least one peptide wherein the at least one peptide is the HYD1 peptide or a functional fragment or variant thereof.

The method of embodiment 21 wherein the at least one peptide is selected from among those of embodiment 10.

The method of embodiment 21 or 22 wherein the at least one peptide is modified by the addition of biotin cystein or carboxyfluorescein FAM to the C terminus or N terminus of the peptide.

The method of any of embodiment 21 23 wherein the at least one peptide comprises at least one D amino acid.

A method of increasing the efficacy of chemotherapy or radiation therapy in a subject comprising administering at least one agent that binds 1 integrin or inhibits 1 integrin mediated adhesion in the subject.

The method of embodiment 27 wherein the at least one agent is an isolated HYD1 peptide KIKMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 1 or a functional fragment or variant thereof.

The method of embodiment 27 or 28 wherein the at least one agent is at least one peptide selected from among those of embodiment 10.

The method of any of embodiments 27 30 wherein the peptide is modified by the addition of biotin cystein or carboxyfluorescein FAM to the C terminus or N terminus of the peptide.

A composition comprising a support and a plurality of peptides immobilized on said support wherein the peptides comprise a HYD1 peptide KIKMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 1 or a functional fragment or variant thereof.

A method of removing circulating tumor cells CTC from blood comprising contacting a subject s blood with a composition comprising a support and a plurality of peptides immobilized on said support wherein the peptides comprise a HYD1 peptide KIKMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 1 or a functional fragment or variant thereof.

A method for identifying modulators of peptide binding comprising providing a candidate agent and determining whether the agent inhibits the ability of a labeled peptide to bind to 1 integrin on a cancer cell surface in vitro or in vivo wherein the peptide is HYD1 peptide KIKMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 1 or a functional fragment or variant thereof.

A method for detecting circulating tumor cells CTC comprising obtaining a biological sample from a subject and determining whether a labeled peptide binds to cells in the sample wherein the peptide comprises a HYD1 peptide KIKMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 1 or a functional fragment or variant thereof.

analyzing the treated sample by a method effective to determine percent apoptosis of cells as an indicator of presence of malignant cells in the sample wherein the at least one peptide is the HYD1 peptide KIKMVISWKG SEQ ID NO 1 or a functional fragment or variant thereof.

As used herein the terms administering or administer is defined as the introduction of a substance into cells in vitro or into the body of an individual and includes oral nasal ocular rectal vaginal and parenteral routes. Compositions e.g. peptides or polynucleotides encoding the peptides may be administered individually or in combination with other agents via any route of administration including but not limited to subcutaneous SQ intramuscular IM intravenous IV intraperitoneal IP intradermal ID via the nasal ocular or oral mucosa IN or orally. For example the peptides or nucleic acids can be administered by direct injection into a tumor or systemically into the circulatory system to kill circulating tumor cells CTC .

In the context of the instant invention the terms oligopeptide polypeptide peptide and protein can be used interchangeably however it should be understood that the invention does not relate to the peptides in natural form that is to say that they are not in their natural environment but that the polypeptides may have been isolated or obtained by purification from natural sources or obtained from host cells prepared by genetic manipulation e.g. the peptides or fragments thereof are recombinantly produced by host cells or by chemical synthesis . Peptides according to the instant invention may also contain non natural amino acids as will be described below. The terms oligopeptide polypeptide peptide and protein are also used in the instant specification to designate a series of residues of any length typically L amino acids connected one to the other typically by peptide bonds between the amino and carboxyl groups of adjacent amino acids. Linker elements can be joined to the polypeptides of the subject invention through peptide bonds or via chemical bonds e.g. heterobifunctional chemical linker elements as set forth below. Additionally the terms amino acid s and residue s can be used interchangeably.

 Nucleotide sequence polynucleotide or nucleic acid can be used interchangeably and are understood to mean according to the present invention either a double stranded DNA a single stranded DNA or products of transcription of the said DNAs e.g. RNA molecules . It should also be understood that the present invention does not relate to genomic polynucleotide sequences in their natural environment or natural state.

As used herein the terms treat or treatment refer to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the development or spread of cancer or other proliferation disorder. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. For example treatment with a peptide of the invention may include reduction of undesirable cell proliferation and or induction of apoptosis and cytotoxicity. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the condition or disorder is to be prevented or onset delayed. Optionally the patient may be identified e.g. diagnosed as one suffering from the disease or condition e.g. proliferation disorder prior to administration of the peptide of the invention.

As used herein the term therapeutically effective amount refers to an amount of the compound of the invention or other agent e.g. a drug effective to treat a disease or disorder in a mammal. In the case of cancer or other proliferation disorder the therapeutically effective amount of the agent may reduce i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop unwanted cellular proliferation reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth reduce 1 integrin signaling in the target cells and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the administered peptide prevents growth of and or kills existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can for example be measured by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

As used herein the term growth inhibitory amount of the compound of the invention refers to an amount which inhibits growth or proliferation of a target cell such as a tumor cell either in vitro or in vivo irrespective of the mechanism by which cell growth is inhibited e.g. by cytostatic properties cytotoxic properties etc. . In a preferred embodiment the growth inhibitory amount inhibits i.e. slows to some extent and preferably stops proliferation or growth of the target cell in vivo or in cell culture by greater than about 20 preferably greater than about 50 most preferably greater than about 75 e.g. from about 75 to about 100 .

The terms cell and cells are used interchangeably herein and are intended to include either a single cell or a plurality of cells in vitro or in vivo unless otherwise specified.

As used herein the term anti cancer agent refers to a substance or treatment e.g. radiation therapy that inhibits the function of cancer cells inhibits their formation and or causes their destruction in vitro or in vivo. Examples include but are not limited to cytotoxic agents e.g. 5 fluorouracil TAXOL chemotherapeutic agents and anti signaling agents e.g. the PI3K inhibitor LY . In one embodiment the anti cancer agent administered before during after administration of the peptide or encoding polynucleotide of the invention is melphalen.

As used herein the term cytotoxic agent refers to a substance that inhibits or prevents the function of cells and or causes destruction of cells in vitro and or in vivo. The term is intended to include radioactive isotopes e.g. At I I Y Re Re Sm Bi P and radioactive isotopes of Lu chemotherapeutic agents toxins such as small molecule toxins or enzymatically active toxins of bacterial fungal plant or animal origin and antibodies including fragments and or variants thereof.

As used herein the term chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer such as for example taxanes e.g. paclitaxel TAXOL BRISTOL MYERS SQUIBB Oncology Princeton N.J. and doxetaxel TAXOTERE Rhone Poulenc Rorer Antony France chlorambucil vincristine vinblastine anti estrogens including for example tamoxifen raloxifene aromatase inhibiting 4 5 imidazoles 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and toremifene FARESTON GTx Memphis Tenn. and anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin etc. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents that may be used in conjunction with the compounds of the invention are listed in Table 3. In a preferred embodiment the chemotherapeutic agent is one or more anthracyclines. Anthracyclines are a family of chemotherapy drugs that are also antibiotics. The anthracyclines act to prevent cell division by disrupting the structure of the DNA and terminate its function by 1 intercalating into the base pairs in the DNA minor grooves and 2 causing free radical damage of the ribose in the DNA. The anthracyclines are frequently used in leukemia therapy. Examples of anthracyclines include daunorubicin CERUBIDINE doxorubicin ADRIAMYCIN RUBEX epirubicin ELLENCE PHARMORUBICIN and idarubicin IDAMYCIN .

As used herein the term tumor refers to all neoplastic cell growth and proliferation whether malignant or benign and all pre cancerous and cancerous cells and tissues. For example a particular cancer may be characterized by a solid tumor mass. A primary tumor mass refers to a growth of cancer cells in a tissue resulting from the transformation of a normal cell of that tissue. In most cases the primary tumor mass is identified by the presence of a cyst which can be found through visual or palpation methods or by irregularity in shape texture or weight of the tissue. However some primary tumors are not palpable and can be detected only through medical imaging techniques such as X rays e.g. mammography or by needle aspirations. The use of these latter techniques is more common in early detection. Molecular and phenotypic analysis of cancer cells within a tissue will usually confirm if the cancer is endogenous to the tissue or if the lesion is due to metastasis from another site. The peptides of the invention are capable of inducing apoptosis in tumor cells and reducing tumor cell growth. The peptides of the invention or nucleic acids encoding them can be administered locally at the site of a tumor e.g. by direct injection or remotely. The peptides of the invention can induce cell death in circulating tumor cells CTC in a subject e.g. by administering the peptides or encoding nucleic acids intravenously. Furthermore the peptides of the invention can prevent or reduce onset of metastasis to other tissues e.g. to the bone.

As used herein the term signaling and signaling transduction represents the biochemical process involving transmission of extracellular stimuli via cell surface receptors through a specific and sequential series of molecules to genes in the nucleus resulting in specific cellular responses to the stimuli.

The term vector is used to refer to any molecule e.g. nucleic acid plasmid or virus usable to transfer coding sequence information e.g. nucleic acid sequence encoding the HYD1 peptide or a fragment or variant thereof such as to a host cell. A vector typically includes a replicon in which another polynucleotide segment is attached such as to bring about the replication and or expression of the attached segment. The term includes expression vectors cloning vectors and the like. Thus the term includes gene expression vectors capable of delivery transfer of exogenous nucleic acid sequences into a host cell. The term expression vector refers to a vector that is suitable for use in a host cell e.g. a patient s cell tissue culture cell cells of a cell line etc. and contains nucleic acid sequences which direct and or control the expression of exogenous nucleic acid sequences. Expression includes but is not limited to processes such as transcription translation and RNA splicing if introns are present. Nucleic acid sequences can be modified according to methods known in the art to provide optimal codon usage for expression in a particular expression system. The vector may include elements to control targeting expression and transcription of the nucleic acid sequence in a cell selective manner as is known in the art. It should be noted that often the 5 UTR and or 3 UTR of the gene may be replaced by the 5 UTR and or 3 UTR of the expression vehicle. The vector can include a promoter for controlling transcription of the exogenous material and can be either a constitutive or inducible promoter and or a tissue specific promoter to allow selective transcription. The expression vector can also include a selection gene.

A coding sequence is a polynucleotide sequence that is transcribed into mRNA and or translated into a polypeptide. The boundaries of the coding sequence are determined by a translation start codon at the 5 terminus and a translation stop codon at the 3 terminus. A coding sequence can include but is not limited to mRNA cDNA and recombinant polynucleotide sequences. Variants or analogs may be prepared by the deletion of a portion of the coding sequence by insertion of a sequence and or by substitution of one or more nucleotides within the sequence. Techniques for modifying nucleotide sequences such as site directed mutagenesis are well known to those skilled in the art See e.g. Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Second Edition 1989 DNA Cloning Vols. I and II D. N. Glover ed. 1985 . Optionally the polynucleotides of the present invention and composition and methods of the invention that utilize such polynucleotides can include non coding sequences.

The term operably linked is used herein to refer to an arrangement of flanking control sequences wherein the flanking sequences so described are configured or assembled so as to perform their usual function. Thus a flanking control sequence operably linked to a coding sequence may be capable of effecting the replication transcription and or translation of the coding sequence under conditions compatible with the control sequences. For example a coding sequence is operably linked to a promoter when the promoter is capable of directing transcription of that coding sequence. A flanking sequence need not be contiguous with the coding sequence so long as it functions correctly. Thus for example intervening untranslated yet transcribed sequences can be present between a promoter sequence and the coding sequence and the promoter sequence can still be considered operably linked to the coding sequence. Each nucleotide sequence coding for a polypeptide will typically have its own operably linked promoter sequence.

The terms transfection and transformation are used interchangeably herein to refer to the insertion of an exogenous polynucleotide into a host cell irrespective of the method used for the insertion the molecular form of the polynucleotide that is inserted or the nature of the cell e.g. prokaryotic or eukaryotic . The insertion of a polynucleotide per se and the insertion of a plasmid or vector comprised of the exogenous polynucleotide are included. The exogenous polynucleotide may be directly transcribed and translated by the cell maintained as a nonintegrated vector for example a plasmid or alternatively may be stably integrated into the host genome.

As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug is intended to describe any pharmaceutically acceptable form such as an ester phosphate ester salt of an ester or a related group of a compound of the invention which upon administration to a subject provides the mature or base compound e.g. a HYD1 peptide . Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include those derived from pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic or organic bases and acids. Suitable salts include those derived from alkali metals such as potassium and sodium alkaline earth metals such as calcium and magnesium among numerous other acids well known in the pharmaceutical art. Pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs refer to a compound that is metabolized for example hydrolyzed or oxidized in the host to form the compound of the present invention. Typical examples of prodrugs include compounds that have biologically labile protecting groups on a functional moiety of the active compound. Prodrugs include compounds that can be oxidized reduced aminated deaminated hydroxylated dehydroxylated hydrolyzed dehydrolyzed alkylated dealkylated acylated deacylated phosphorylated dephosphorylated to produce the active compound.

The terms link or join refers to any method known in the art for functionally connecting peptides including without limitation recombinant fusion covalent bonding disulfide bonding ionic bonding hydrogen bonding and electrostatic bonding.

The terms comprising consisting of and consisting essentially of are defined according to their standard meaning. The terms may be substituted for one another throughout the instant application in order to attach the specific meaning associated with each term.

The terms isolated or biologically pure refer to material that is substantially or essentially free from components which normally accompany the material as it is found in its native state. Thus isolated peptides in accordance with the invention preferably do not contain materials normally associated with the peptides in their in situ environment.

As used in this specification the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example a reference to a compound includes more than one such compound. A reference to a peptide includes more than one such peptide and so forth.

The practice of the present invention can employ unless otherwise indicated conventional techniques of molecular biology microbiology recombinant DNA technology electrophysiology and pharmacology that are within the skill of the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature see e.g. Sambrook Fritsch Maniatis Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Second Edition 1989 DNA Cloning Vols. I and II D. N. Glover Ed. 1985 Perbal B. A Practical Guide to Molecular Cloning 1984 the series Methods In Enzymology S. Colowick and N. Kaplan Eds. Academic Press Inc. Transcription and Translation Hames et al. Eds. 1984 Gene Transfer Vectors For Mammalian Cells J. H. Miller et al. Eds. 1987 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. Scopes Protein Purification Principles and Practice 2nd ed. Springer Verlag and PCR A Practical Approach McPherson et al. Eds. 1991 IRL Press each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Experimental controls are considered fundamental in experiments designed in accordance with the scientific method. It is routine in the art to use experimental controls in scientific experiments to prevent factors other than those being studied from affecting the outcome. For example the specification and the scientific literature available to those skilled in the art at the time the application was filed describe a number of ways that one can contact a test agent e.g. a potential ligand of 1 integrin binding with a host cell expressing the integrin and optionally determine whether the test agent modulates modulates e.g. inhibits integrin mediated adhesion.

Following are examples that illustrate materials methods and procedures for practicing the invention. The examples are illustrative and should not be construed as limiting.

Cell Culture and Drugs. H929 8226 and HS 5 cells were obtained from the American Type Culture Collection Rockville Md. . 8226 and H929 cells were grown in suspension in RPMI 1640 media Cellgro Fischer Scientific Pittsburgh Pa. supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum Omega Scientific Turzana Calif. penicillin 100 ug ml streptomycin 100 ug ml and 2 mM L glutamine GIBCO BRL Grand Island N.Y. . For H929 cells 0.05 mM 2 mercaptoethanol was added to the culture media. HS 5 cells were grown as a monolayer in RPMI 1640 media Cellgro supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum Omega penicillin 100 ug ml streptomycin 100 ug ml and 2 mM L glutamine GIBCO BRL Grand Island N.Y. . Cells were maintained at 37 C. in 5 CO 95 air atmosphere and underwent passage twice weekly.

Drugs and antibodies. Melphalan was obtained from Sigma St. Louis Mo. and was dissolved in acid ethanol at 10 mg ml. The integrin blocking antibodies included 4 blocking antibody P4G9 Dako Carpinteria Calif. 5 blocking antibody P1D6 Dako and 1 blocking antibody ABIIB was provide by Dr. Doug Cress . HYD1 and HYD1S d amino acid peptides were synthesized by Global Peptides Fort Collins Colo. .

Quantification of cell adhesion to fibronectin. Briefly 8226 or H929 myeloma cells were pre incubated with varying concentrations of either HYD1 or the scrambled peptide HYD1S for 30 minutes prior to allowing cells to attach to FN for two hours. Cell adhesion was detected by crystal violet staining as previously described Damiano J S et al. 1999 93 1658 1667 Hazlehurst L A et al. 2000 19 4319 4327 .

Quantification of cell adhesion to HS 5 bone marrow stroma cells. Adhesion of 8226 or H929 cells to the HS 5 bone marrow stromal cells was performed as previously described Nefedova Y et al. 2003 17 1175 1182 . Briefly HS 5 cells were plated at a density of 500 000 cell ml in a 96 well plate overnight. The following day 8226 cells were labeled with 1 M of the fluorescent dye CMFDA Molecular Probes for 30 minutes in the dark. The labeled myeloma cells were then washed three times and incubated an additional 45 minutes to allow unbound dye to diffuse out of cells. Cells were then counted and placed at a density of one million cells per ml and varying concentrations of peptide were added for 30 minutes prior to addition of 100 l of cells to either HS 5 or BSA coated plates. Cells were allowed to adhere for two hours and unbound cells were washed with three gentle washes and total fluorescence was detected by a Victor plate reader at 485 nm excitation and 535 nm emission. The experiment was performed in quadruplicate and repeated in 3 independent experiments.

Detection of Apoptosis. A flow cytometric assay measuring Annexin V PI staining was used to measure apoptotic cells following 24 hours of peptide exposure as previously described Damiano J S et al. 1999 93 1658 1667 . The assay was performed in triplicate and 3 independent experiments were performed. Caspase 3 and 8 activity was measured at 6 and 24 hrs post peptide treatment per manufactures instructions BD Biosciences San Jose Calif. . The caspase assays were performed in triplicate and repeated twice.

Lysosensor staining. 35 mm glass bottom microwell dishes were incubated with 10 ul Cell tak BD biosciences San Jose Calif. and 290 ul 0.5M sodium bicarbonate Sigma for 30 minutes. The plates were aspirated and 200 000H929 or 8226 cells were plated. Cells were then treated with either water VC 100 g ml HYD1 or 100 g ml HYD1S for 6 hours. After the 6 hour incubation the plates were aspirated and washed once with warm media. Media containing 1 M lysosensor DND 189 Molecular Probes Carlsbad Calif. and 20 M Hoechst 33342 Molecular Probes was added and samples were incubated for an additional 30 minutes. Samples were analyzed with a Leica DMI6000 inverted TCS SP5 confocal scanner Leica Microsystems Germany . 405 Diode and Argon laser lines were applied to excite the samples and tunable filters were used to minimize the crosstalk between fluorochromes. Gain offset and pinhole setting were identical for all samples within the treatment group. Image sections at 0.3 M were captured with photomultiplier detectors and maximum projections were prepared with the LAS AF software version 1.6.0 build 1016 Leica Microsystems Germany .

Trafficking of LC3. LC3 cDNA and pK1 IRES puro vector were kindly provided by Dr. Noboru Mizushima Tokyo Medical and Dental University Japan and Dr. Gary Reuther H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center Research Institute respectively. For stable transfection of GFP LC3 in X a cDNA encoding GFP LC3 was subcloned into the Xho I and EcoR I sites of the pK1 IRES puro vector. The plasmid was then transfected into Phoenix ampho cells using the calcium phosphate technique. The supernatant containing the recombinant retrovirus was collected 48 hr after transfection and used for infection into 8226 and H929 cells. The stable transfectants were selected with 1 g ml of puromycin for 4 days.

35 mm glass bottom microwell dishes were prepared as described above. The plates were aspirated and 200 000H929 LC3 or 8226 LC3 cells were plated. Cells were treated with either VC 100 g.ml HYD1 or 100 g ml HYD1S for 6 hours. After the 6 hour incubation plates were aspirated and washed once with warm media. Media containing 20 M Hoechst 33342 Molecular Probes was added to the plates and samples were incubated for 30 minutes. Samples were viewed with a Leica DMI6000 inverted microscope TCS SP5 confocal scanner and a 100 1.40NA Plan Apochromat oil immersion objective Leica Microsystems Germany . 405 Diode and Argon laser lines were applied to excite the samples and tunable filters were used to minimize the crosstalk between fluorochromes. Gain offset and pinhole setting were identical for all samples within the treatment group. Image sections at 0.3 m were captured with photomultiplier detectors and maximum projections were prepared with the LAS AF software version 1.6.0 build 1016 Leica Microsystems Germany . Signal intensity was measured using Pro Plus version 5.0.1.11 Media Cybernetics Inc. Silver Spring Md. .

Co culture model. HS 5 GFP cells were plated at a density of 500 000 cells per ml and incubated overnight. Myeloma cells were incubated with vehicle control water 50 g ml HYD1 or 50 g ml HYD1S 30 minutes prior to the addition of myeloma cells 400 000 cell ml to either control plates or plates containing HS 5 cells. Myeloma cells were incubated with HS 5 cells for three hours prior to the addition of melphalan. Apoptotic cells were measured in GFP negative myeloma cells by annexin PE staining and FACS analysis n 9 . ANOVO was performed to determine significance between conditions.

Electron Microscopy. H929 cells were treated for four hours with either 100 g ml HYD1 or HYD1S. After peptide treatment the samples were fixed overnight in 2.5 glutaraldehyde in 0.1M phosphate buffer pH 7.2 overnight at four degrees. Following fixation the cells were rinsed 2 times for 10 minutes each in 0.1M phosphate buffer pH 7.2 at 4 C. The cells were loosely pelleted in microcentrifuge tubes at 500 G for 3 minutes. The buffer was removed from the cells and replaced with 1 osmium tetroxide in the above buffer at 4 C. The cells were resuspended and post fixed for 1 hour then loosely pelleted and rinsed in the above buffer. This step was repeated for a total of 3 rinses of 5 minutes each with the cells being resuspended after each buffer change. Cells were dehydrated through a graded series of acetone 30 50 70 and 95 acetone in water 5 minutes per change with loose pelleting at 750 G for 5 minutes then resuspension for each step. The cells were then dehydrated through three changes of 100 acetone 10 minutes per change with a 5 minute pelleting step at 1000 G followed by resuspension in each step. The samples were then suspended in and infiltrated with a 1 1 mixture of 100 acetone embedding medium for 1 hour while under vacuum. Following this step the cells were pelleted at 300 G for 5 minutes and then re suspended in 100 embedding medium. Samples were infiltrated with 100 embedding medium for 1 hour under vacuum. Cells were then pelleted at 7800 G for 5 minutes re suspended in a fresh change of embedding medium and placed back under vacuum for another hour. This step was repeated one more time. The cells were left in the last change of embedding medium until the end of the day and then pelleted for 15 minutes at 7800 G. A fresh change of embedding medium was made without disturbing the pellets and the medium was polymerized in a 70 C. oven for two days. Pellets were sectioned with a Reichert E ultramicrotome. Thick sections 0.5 were picked up and mounted on glass slides and stained with 1 toluidine blue stain. Thin sections 80 90 nm were picked up on 100 mesh copper grids stained with 8 aqueous uranyl acetate for 10 minutes and Reynold s lead citrate for 5 minutes. Thin sections were examined with a Philips CM10 transmission electron microscope at 60 kV. Representative cells were photographed and photographs printed and scanned.

SCID Hu model. The SCID Hu model was performed as previously described Zhu K et al. 2005 105 4759 4766 . Briefly SCID Beige mice 4 6 weeks old were purchased from Taconic Germantown N.Y. . Fetal tissue 18 23 weeks was obtained from Advance Bioscience Resource Alameda Calif. in compliance with state and federal government regulations. Two bones were surgically implanted in the mammary fat pad of 6 8 week old female SCID mice. Following six weeks of bone engraftment 50 000 8226 or H929 cells were injected directly into the bone and tumor was allowed to engraft for 4 weeks. At 28 days baseline tumor burden was quantified in the sera using either a lambda 8226 or kappa H929 ELISA kit per manufacture instructions Bethyl Montgomery Tex. and mice were randomized into treatment groups. For HYD1 groups mice were treated with either 2 mg kg or 8 mg kg i.p. daily as indicated. Mice receiving melphalan were given two i.p. injections of 1.5 mg kg on day 29 and 32. Tumor burden was assessed weekly by measuring kappa or lambda levels in the sera.

A model which perhaps more closely resembles the tumor microenvironment is one based on the response of tumor cells to chemotherapy in a bone marrow stroma model. Fortney et al showed that co culture of B lineage tumor cells with bone marrow stroma resulted in reduced apoptosis induced by etoposide and Ara C. Although the exact mechanism has not been fully elucidated the CAM DR phenotype correlated with reduced activation of caspase 3 suggesting inhibition of the apoptotic pathway Fortney J E et al. 2001 25 901 907 . In this stroma model cytoprotection required direct cell cell contact as drug resistance could not be conferred by the addition of stromal cell conditioned media. The drug resistant phenotype could be reversed by an anti VCAM 1 antibody suggesting that the VCAM 1 receptor VLA 4 is conferring resistance in this stroma model. It is difficult to interpret studies using blocking 1 integrin on drug resistance when cells are adhered to FN as an adherent population is no longer available to test. However cell adhesion to the bone marrow stroma cells is multifactorial thus tumor cells will remain adherent despite the addition of a 1 inhibitory peptide. In summary in the HS 5 co culture model drug sensitivity can be tested for by blocking 1 integrin binding without quantitatively disrupting cell cell contact. The HS 5 BMS cell line appears to be fibroblastoid and secrete significant levels of soluble growth factors Roecklein B A et al. 1995 85 997 . Moreover the present inventors have data showing that co culturing myeloma cell lines with a bone marrow stroma cell line HS 5 confers resistance to melphalan dexamthesone and topoisomerase II inhibitors.

Several peptides that inhibited 1 integrin mediated adhesion of DU145 prostate cancer cells to fibronectin laminin and collagen IV have been shown using combinatorial peptide libraries and a functional binding assays DeRoock I B et al. 2001 61 3308 3313 . The lead candidates isolated from the functional screens were the D amino acid peptides referred to as RZ 3 kmviywkag and HYD 1 kikmviswkg . A scrambled derivative of HYD 1 referred to as HYD1S wiksmkivkg was shown not to inhibit cell adhesion to extracellular matrixes. The data show that HYD 1 but not the scrambled peptide blocks cellular adhesion of myeloma cells to fibronectin. Furthermore the data show that pre treatment with the HYD1 peptide potentiates melphalan induced apoptosis. The blocking peptides are only 10 amino acids in length and thus it is reasonable to assume that small molecules may be developed that will bind the peptide site residing on 1 integrin. In addition by labeling the peptide e.g. fluorescently an efficient screen for blocking peptide binding is made available.

It has been reported that 1 integrin mediated adhesion of 8226 cells and K562 cells to FN blocked cell death induced by the alkylating agent melphalan Damiano J S et al. 1999 93 1658 1667 Hazlehurst L A et al. 2003 63 7900 7906 . In order to determine whether the CAM DR phenotype is a potential mechanism of clinical de novo drug resistance melphalan induced cell death was recently measured in primary myeloma patient specimens See . Plasma cells were identified by either positive Kappa or Lambda staining and apoptotic myeloma cells were identified by the Tunnel assay. Ten individual patients were tested and as shown in . 9 out of 10 patient specimens were protected from melphalan induced cell death when adherent to FN compared to suspension cultures. The mean percent apoptosis of plasma cells obtained from bone marrow aspirates and adhered to FN prior to treatment with 200 M melphalan was 27.7 95 LCI 17.6 and 95 UCI 32.8 compared to 55.6 95 LCI 44.1 and UCI 67.2 apoptosis for plasma cells treated in suspension cultures p

The CAM DR phenotype is tested by removing unadhered cells before the addition of drug. Because adhesion of hematopoietic tumor cell lines to FN can be entirely blocked by either the addition of the 1 blocking antibodies or the 1 integrin inhibitory peptide this makes it technically difficult to test for reversal of CAM DR in the FN adhesion model. For this reason the inventors chose to test for the reversal of drug resistance in adherent cells by using a bone marrow stroma BMS model HS 5 cell line . In the BMS model of drug resistance cell cell adhesion is mediated by multiple adhesion moieties and thus the addition of a 1 blocking antibody is not sufficient to block tumor cell adhesion to the BMS cell line. The BMS model system is described in . These models have facilitated the availability of four discrete hematopoietic tumor populations. The first tumor population is maintained in a traditional suspension culture in RPMI media containing 10 FBS RM . Conditioned media is prepared by adding fresh RPMI media containing 10 FBS to HS 5 cells which are 75 confluent. After three hours the media is then collected centrifuged and stored at 70 for up to one month. This tumor cell culture condition is referred to as CM . The third tumor cell population consists of placing HS 5 cells in the bottom chamber and tumor cell in a top chamber that is separated by a membrane allowing for diffusion of soluble factors see . This condition is distinct from CM because it considers dynamic soluble interactions between the tumor cell and BMS cells see . Finally as shown in the fourth culture condition considers both cell adhesion and soluble interactions of tumor cells and BMS cells. As shown in using HS 5 cells as the stromal layer in the BMS model is sufficient to confer resistance to melphalan mitoxantrone and dexamethasone induced cell death. Regardless of the cytotoxic agent used the levels of drug resistance are greatest for myeloma cells which are adherent to the BMS. Finally as shown in conditioned media is sufficient to protect MM1.S cells from dexamethasone induced apoptosis but not melphalan induced apoptosis. Thus for DNA damaging agents such as mitoxantrone and melphalan soluble factors produced by the HS 5 cell line does not confer significant levels of resistance.

As shown in HYD1 but not HYD1S blocks cell adhesion of myeloma cells to the extracellular matrix FN. Briefly 8226 myeloma cells were pre incubated with varying concentrations of either HYD1 or the scrambled HYD1S peptide for 30 minutes prior to allowing cells to attach to FN for two hours. Following two hours of cell adhesion the amount of cells adherent to FN was measured. The next objective was to determine whether treatment of tumor cells with HYD1 results in potentiation of melphalan induced cell death in the BMS co culture model SF A . As shown in and consistent with the inventors previous data co culturing myeloma cells with HS 5 cells SF A model inhibits melphalan induced cell death compared to cells cultured in regular RPMI media containing 10 FBS RM . Furthermore treatment with HYD1 potentiates melphalan induced apoptosis most dramatically in the SF A model drug specific apoptosis melphalan induced apoptosis minus either no peptide HYD1 only treatment or HYD1S only treatment . For these studies the HYD1 and HYD1S were pre incubated with the peptide for 30 minutes and then cells and culture media containing the peptide were placed into the S 5 culture dish. Myeloma cells were co cultured for an additional 3 hours with HS 5 cells before the addition of melphalan. Twenty four hours after drug treatment apoptosis was measured by Annexin V PE positive events by FACS analysis. The HS 5 cells constitutively express GFP and thus it is possible to gate GFP negative cells only myeloma cells for the apoptotic analysis. Treatment with HYD1 did not result in detachment of the HS 5 cells as myeloma cells remained visibly attached to the HS 5 cells suggesting that multiple adhesion moieties regulate cell cell attachment in the SF A model system. Surprisingly HYD1 also increased melphalan induced apoptosis in suspension cells. Earlier reports have indicated that myeloma cell lines express and secrete soluble fibronectin van Riet I et al. 1994 87 258 265 .

As shown in HYD1 kikmviswkg SEQ ID NO 1 but not the scrambled version of HYD1S wiksmkivkg SEQ ID NO 44 blocks cell adhesion of myeloma cells to the extracelullar matrix firborenectin FN . Briefly 8226 myeloma cells were pre incubated with varying concentrations of either HYD1 or the scrambled HYD1S peptide for 30 minutes prior to allowing cells to attach to FN for two hours.

To test the hypothesis that HYD1 potentiates 1 integrin mediated drug resistance in the bone marrow microenvironment a bone marrow stroma BMS model of drug resistance was developed. The BMS model systems are described in . These models have allowed three discrete hematopoietic tumor populations. The first MM population is maintained in a traditional suspension culture in RPMI media containing 10 FBS RM . The second MM cell population consists of placing HS 5 cells in the bottom chamber and MM cells in a top chamber that is separated by a membrane allowing for diffusion of soluble factors see . Finally as shown in the third culture condition considers both cell adhesion and soluble interactions of MM cells and BMS cells. As shown in using HS 5 cells as the stromal layer in the BMS model is sufficient to confer resistance to melphalan mitoxantrone velcade and dexamethasone induced cell death. Regardless of the cytotoxic agent used the SF A model which allows for direct cell contact confers the greatest levels of drug resistance.

As shown in co culturing myeloma cells with HS 5 cells SF A model inhibits melphalan induced cell death compared to cells that are cultured in suspension with RPMI media containing 10 FBS RM . Importantly treatment with HYD1 potentiates melphalan induced apoptosis in the SF A model p

Based upon the observation that HYD1 increased melphalan induced apoptosis in suspension cultures whether treatment with HYD1 inhibits phosphorylation of a downstream mediator of 1 integrin signaling Pyk2 in suspension cultures was investigated. As shown in treating H929 cells with HYD1 but not HYD1S reduces phospho Pyk2 levels in H929 myeloma cells cultured in suspension. Taken together these data suggest that MM cell lines may contain basal activation of 1 integrins in suspension cultures perhaps as a result of secretion and the subsequent coating of FN on the cell surface of MM cells or via

Defining the minimal region of HYD1 necessary to potentiate drug induced apoptosis in suspension and adherent cultures is of interest. Below is a study to determine the minimal HYD1 sequence required to block prostate tumor cell migration. Similar studies as those outlined below and using the same peptide sequences will be used to determine the minimal amino acid sequence required for potentiation of drug induced apoptosis.

To determine the minimal element of immobilized HYD1 required for cell adhesion the N and C terminus was systematically truncated one amino acid at a time . Most of the adhesion activity was retained with the deletion of lys glycine from the C terminus. However the peptide no longer supported cell adhesion if the next residue tryptophan was removed. Deletion of the N terminus on the other hand was tolerated very well until the third residue methionine was removed leading to gradual decrease in cell binding. When HYD1 was truncated from both termini it was found that ikmvisw SEQ ID NO 19 peptide retained full cell adhesion activities. Alanine substitution analysis of this peptide indicated that the N terminal isoleucine and one serine in the C terminal region were not critical amino acids for cell adhesion . Taken together these data show that the minimal element necessary for cell adhesion is kmvixw SEQ ID NO 46 .

HYD1 completely blocks random haptotaxis on laminin 322 laminin 5 . This response to the peptide is independent of disrupting adhesion to laminin 322 laminin 5 since the cells were grown on a ligand before treatment with the peptide. Alanine substitution analysis of HYD1 revealed that the N terminal lysine and the final two C terminal residues a lysine and glycine were not critical residues for blocking haptotaxis . All other alanine substitution mutants resulted cell migration i.e. a loss of peptide activity. These data suggest that the active sequence for blocking cell migration was kmvisw SEQ ID NO 45 .

Analysis using the deletion variants of HYD1 showed that minimal deletion from either end of the peptide resulted in at least partial loss of activity . Using the negative control scrambled peptide HYDS SEQ ID NO 44 to indicate 100 cell migration several truncated peptides including ikmviswkg SEQ ID NO 22 kmviswkg SEQ ID NO 39 and kikmviswk SEQ ID NO 37 were effective at blocking cell migration by approximately 50 . These data are consistent with the results found in the adhesion assays in that both the N and C terminal regions of HYD1 are responsible for its bioactivity. Taken together these data show that the minimal element necessary to maximally block cell migration on laminin 322 laminin 5 is xkmviswxx SEQ ID NO 50 .

HYD1 when introduced as a soluble ligand completely blocks random hapotaxis on laminin 322 and enhanced cellular signals are coupled with the loss of cell motility. HYD1 induces activation of ERK that is maximal at 10 min post treatment. Using this endpoint as an indicator of HYD1 bioactivity the truncated and alanine substituted variants of HYD1 were tested for their ability to activate ERK. Activation of ERK at 10 minutes post treatment was conserved with alanine substitution only at the N terminal lysine and C terminal glycine . All other alanine substitution resulted in a loss of ERK activation suggesting that the interior residues ikmviswk SEQ ID NO 47 are critical. Deletion analysis of HYD1 revealed that both N and C terminal regions are involved in activation of ERK . Specifically the N terminal 5 amino acid residues kikmv SEQ ID NO 29 and the C terminal 5 amino acid residues iswkg SEQ ID NO 23 alone induced partial activation of ERK. The N terminal region kikmv SEQ ID NO 29 induced a stronger signal than iswkg SEQ ID NO 23 . In addition some of the truncated mutants were able to partially activate ERK however the amount of activation was substantially reduced in comparison to the full length peptide. These data showed that both the N and C terminal regions of HYD1 contained an element that can induce ERK activation. Taken together the results A B C indicate that activation of ERK signaling required ikmviswxx SEQ ID NO 48 .

Other groups have recently shown that the A6 integrin contributes to hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell homing to the bone marrow. Experimentally blocking A6 by a function blocking antibody profoundly inhibited bone marrow homing of long term multi lineage engrafting stem cells. This receptor was also important in the short term repopulating stem cells 107 3503 3510 2006 . These results coupled with the knowledge that tumor cells also home to the bone and interact with the bone extracellular laminin matrix suggests that HYD1 which inhibits tumor cell adhesion to laminin can be used either to block homing to the bone or be used to retrieve tumor cells as they circulate in the blood.

The present inventors have shown that adhesion of hematopoietic tumor cell lines via 1 integrins can be blocked by HYD1. In addition HYD1 has been demonstrated bind to the cell surface. Furthermore binding of HYD1 to the cell surface is blocked by the addition of antibodies that recognize the external domain of the 1 integrin receptor. Finally the inventors have obtained data showing that treatment of myeloma cell lines with HYD1 reverses drug resistance associated with co culturing tumor cells with a bone marrow stroma cell line.

HYD1 was previously shown to inhibit adhesion of DUH H prostate carcinoma cells selected from DU145 cells using FACS to select cells expressing high levels of 6 integrin to various extracellular matrixes including fibronectin FN laminin 1 laminin 5 and collagen V DeRoock I B et al. 2001 61 3308 3313 . The first objective was to determine whether HYD1 blocks cell adhesion of myeloma cell lines to FN. As shown in HYD1 but not HYD1S blocks adhesion of 8226 and H929 cells to the extracellular matrix FN in a dose dependent manner.

It was expected that adhesion of myeloma cells to bone marrow stroma cells would likely be multifactorial. This premise was tested directly by labeling MM cells with the fluorescent dye CMFDA and measured MM cell attachment to HS 5 cells in the presence of varying concentrations of HYD1 HYD1S or a 1 100 dilution of a functional 1 blocking antibody. As shown in HYD1 partially blocked 8226 cells from binding to HS 5 cells while having no effect on the H929 cells. The results obtained with HYD1 treatment in the two cell lines were similar with what was observed with the 1 blocking antibody.

It was hypothesized that HYD1 would reverse drug resistance associated 1 integrin mediated with cell adhesion. Based on the initial hypothesis it was expected that cell adhesion would be required to observe any anti tumor activity associated with HYD1 treatment. However surprisingly annexin V positive cells were detected following HYD1 treatment when myeloma cells were cultured in suspension. As shown in when either H929 or 8226 cells are cultured in a traditional suspension culture HYD1 caused a dose dependent induction of annexin V positive cells. Because these cell death assays were performed in suspension cultures these data suggest that perhaps either a myeloma cells contain a basal activation of 1 integrins prior to physical cell adhesion or b the peptide acts as a partial agonist but in the absence of cell adhesion results in cell death. Moreover it was observed that H929 cells are more sensitive to HYD1 treatment compared to 8226 cells indicating that some cell lines may be more dependent on appropriate 1 integrin signaling for cell survival.

H929 cells were analyzed further to determine whether HYD1 induced cell death was caspase dependent or independent. As shown in the pan caspase inhibitor ZVAD FMK only marginally protected H929 cells from cell death induced by HYD1. In contrast ZVAD FMK treatment blocked the majority of melphalan treated annexin V positive cells . The dependence of caspase activation was examined by directly measuring caspase activity. For these studies H929 cells were treated with HYD1 for 6 and 24 hrs and measured caspase 3 and 8 activity. HYD1 treatment induced minimal caspase 3 activity see relative to treatment with melphalan. In addition no caspase 8 activity was detected at either 6 or 24 hrs treatment with HYD1 treatment see . Together the data indicate that HYD1 treatment induces a caspase independent mechanism of cell death.

Autophagy represents one mechanism of cell death which is reported to occur independently of caspase activation. Autophagic cell death is characterized morphologically by the appearance of double membrane containing cytoplasmic vesicles. These vesicles typically engulf cytoplasmic content including organdies such as mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum. Eventually autophagic vesicles will fuse with lysosomes resulting in degradation of the contents. Initially lysosensor green staining and confocal microscopy were used to determine whether treatment of HYD1 resulted in an increase in the size or number of acidic vesicles. As shown in both 8236 and H929 cells treated with HYD1 for six hours caused an increase in the number and size of acidic vesicles compared to control cells. Electron microscopy EM was used to determine whether HYD1 treatment result an increase in the formation of double membranes. As shown in treatment with HYD1 for 4 hours resulted in increased formation of double membranes and morphologically is similar to reports consistent with ER phagy. In control HYD1S treated cells small vesicles fused with lysosomes were observed however the large vesicles noted with HYD1 treatment in both the lysosensor staining and EM analysis were not detected. Taken together the data indicate that HYD1 is likely to induce an autophagic mechanism of cell death.

The HS 5 co culture model system was used to determine what effect HYD1 treatment has on drug resistance associated with the bone marrow microenvironment. Melphalan was used as the cytotoxic agent and shown in are the levels of resistance associated with the co culture model. In conditions where HYD1 was added cell death due to the peptide was subtracted and thus the y axis represents melphalan specific apoptosis for each condition. When HYD1 was combined with melphalan treatment a significant increase in melphalan specific apoptosis compared to cells treated with HYD1S p

The SCID Hu model was used to determine whether HYD1 demonstrates anti tumor activity in vivo. The SCID Hu model consists of implanting human fetal bone into the mammary mouse fat pad of SCID mice. The myeloma cells are subsequently injected directly into the bone and myeloma cells will engraft only in the area of the human bone. Thus the SCID Hu model allows for the growth of the human myeloma cells in the human bone microenvironment Yaccoby S et al. 1998 92 2908 2913 . Human paraprotein can be measured in the mouse sera and levels represent a good marker for evaluating tumor burden and response to chemotherapy. In summary the SCID Hu model is an excellent model for evaluating drug response of myeloma tumor burden in the bone marrow microenvironment without concerns of systemic disease confounding the interpretations of tumor response data. Circulating lambda levels were measured on day 28 baseline reading and 35 42 and 49 by ELISA and for each mouse tumor burden was determined by calculating the lambda levels on day X divided by the baseline lambda levels recoded on day 28 for each mouse. Shown in is the antitumor response of H929 engrafted tumor when mice where given 8 mg kg intraperitoneal i.p. injections daily for 14 days starting on day 28. Shown in are the results of a combination study where appropriate mice were treated with 2 mg kg HYD1 for 14 days with and without melphalan treatment. Again antitumor activity was detected with HYD1 only group and the combination of HYD1 and melphalan showed the greatest reduction in tumor burden compared to either control or melphalan only treated mice.

HYD1 biotinHYD1 FAMHYD ikmviswkg SEQ ID NO 22 HYD18 and kikmviswk SEQ ID NO 37 HYD17 were synthesized by Global Peptides. The proteomics core at University of South Florida synthesized all other truncated and alanine substituted peptides. All peptides were HPLC purified and were established as being greater then 90 pure. In all cases Mass Spectrometry verified the peptide sequence.

Myeloma cells were plated at a density of 400 000 cells per ml in a 24 well plate. Cells were treated with the indicated dose of the peptide for 24 hours. Following 24 hrs of peptide exposure apoptotic cells were detected using Annexin V staining and FACS analysis. Ten thousand events were analyzed by flow cytometry Becton Dickinson San Jose Calif. . Experiments were performed in triplicate and repeated twice. Shown is a representative figure.

HYD1 variants were designed to be progressively truncated at either the N or C terminus. In addition the inventors sought to define whether lysine residues which are protonated at physiological pH were critical for biological activity. Thus full length HYD1 variants were also constructed in which the lysine residue was substituted with alanine. As shown in deleting the C terminus glycine residue increased the potency of HYD1. However deleting the C terminus lysine and glycine amino acid completely abolished biological activity. Moreover substituting all three lysine within HYD1 abolished biological activity. Finally removing the lysine and the isoleucine residues from the N terminus abolished activity. As shown in and consistent with previous results H929 cells are more sensitive to HYD1 treatment compared to 8226 cells. The structure activity relationship was similar in H929 cells with the exception that deleting the terminal glycine did not substantially increase potency see compared to HYD1 treatment.

Shown in is a biotin derivative of HYD1 biotinHYD1 which has increased potency compared to HYD1 in both 8226 and H929 cells see . Moreover FAM conjugated HYD1 retains biological activity. These data indicate that conjugation of the N terminus lysine residue can be accomplished without ablating biological activity and can be used to design compounds with greater activity and or more favorable pharmacokinetics.

All patents patent applications provisional applications and publications referred to or cited herein supra or infra are incorporated by reference in their entirety including all figures and tables to the extent they are not inconsistent with the explicit teachings of this specification.

It should be understood that the examples and embodiments described herein are for illustrative purposes only and that various modifications or changes in light thereof will be suggested to persons skilled in the art and are to be included within the spirit and purview of this application.

