---

title: Process for preparing rosuvastatin calcium
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08318933&OS=08318933&RS=08318933
owner: Aurobindo Pharma Ltd
number: 08318933
owner_city: Hyderabad
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20071029
---
This application is the National stage of International Application No. PCT IB2007 003312 filed on Oct. 29 2007 which claims benefit under U.S.C 119 to Indian patent application number 1994 CHE 2006 filed on Oct. 31 2006 all of which are hereby expressly incorporated by reference into the present application.

Rosuvastatin which is an antihyperchlolesterolemic drug is chemically known as E 7 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl 3R 5S 3 5 dihydroxyhept 6 enoic acid calcium 2 1 salt of Formula I.

Rosuvastatin was for the first time disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 260 440. Rosuvastatin is being marketed under the proprietary name CRESTOR as an oral tablet for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia. In view of the importance of Rosuvastatin as a Lipid lowering agent several synthetic methods have been reported in the literature to prepare Rosuvastatin some of which are as summarized below 

U.S. Pat. No. 5 260 440 discloses a process for preparing Rosuvastatin in examples. The process is as shown below 

The difficulties in the above process are that the intermediate A is not obtained in pure form readily and its purification is tedious and overall yield is extremely low. Even when intermediate A is obtained in pure form further condensation with intermediate 8 does not result in Rosuvastatin of right quality as the product contains unacceptable level of impurities and further the intermediates are obtained as liquids making it difficult to purify.

WO 2006 076845 Al discloses a process to prepare Rosuvastatin which comprises nitrilation of pyrimidine aldehyde 11 to give a cyano compound 12 followed by reduction to give 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N mesylamino pyrimidin 5 propenal 13 and then converted to Rosuvastatin. The process is as shown below 

In this process nitrilation is carried out using diethylcyanomethyl phosphate. The disadvantage of this process is that during conversion of cyano functionality into aldehyde lots of impurities are formed along with unwanted cis isomer therefore the yield and purity of the product are poor.

WO 03 097614 A2 describes a modified procedure for the preparation of the starting material 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonylamino 5 pyrimidinecarboxaldehyde and further conversion to Rosuvastatin by condensing with methyl 3R 3 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy 5 oxo 6 triphenylphosphoranylidene hexanoate. The condensed product was deprotected using methanesulfonic acid and subsequently converted to Rosuvastatin calcium 2 1 salt.

WO 2004 052867 A1 describes a process to prepare Rosuvastatin by condensing 1 cyano 2S 2 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy 4 oxo 5 triphenylphosphoranylidene pentane with 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methanesulfonylamino 5 pyrimidinecarbaldehyde and subsequent deprotection of silyl group reduction and hydrolysis.

WO 2000 049014 A1 discloses a novel chemical process for the manufacture of tert butyl E 6 2 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl vinyl 4R 6S 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxan 4 yl acetate which comprises reaction of diphenyl 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl methylphosphineoxide with tert butyl 2 4R 6S 6 formyl 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxan 4 yl acetate and its further conversion to Rosuvastatin.

WO 2004 014872 A1 describes a process for the manufacture of Rosuvastatin calcium 2 1 salt which comprises mixing a solution of calcium chloride with a solution of water soluble salt of E 7 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl 3R 5S 3 5 dihydroxyhept 6 enoic acid. This process for the preparation of Rosuvastatin employs the use of phosphorane side chain the preparation of side chain requires eight synthetic steps and involves expensive reagents. The process is both uneconomical and time consuming hence not appropriate for commercial scale operation.

In the above scheme R R Rrepresent substituted or unsubstituted phenyl and Rrepresents an aliphatic residue selected from C Calkyl Rrepresents C Calkyl which is optionally substituted by hydroxyl Rrepresents hydrogen halogen C Calkyl or C Calkoxy Rrepresents aliphatic residue Rrepresents C Calkyl.

In the above mentioned scheme R R Rare substituted or unsubstituted phenyl and Ris an aliphatic residue selected from C Calkyl Rrepresents C Calkyl M is an alkali metal salt X represents a halogen Rrepresents C Calkyl which is optionally substituted by hydroxyl Rrepresents hydrogen halogen C Calkyl or C Calkoxy Ris an aliphatic residue selected from C Calkyl.

We have now found an improved process to prepare 3R 5S 7 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonylamino pyrimidin 5 yl 3 5 dihydroxy 6E heptenoic acid calcium salt of Formula I that is cost effective and industrially feasible.

The main objective of the present invention is to provide an improved process for preparing 3R 5S 7 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methyl sulfonylamino pyrimidin 5 yl 3 5 dihydroxy 6E heptenoic acid calcium salt of Formula I.

Yet another objective of the present invention is to provide an improved process for preparing 3R 5S 7 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methyl sulfonylamino pyrimidin 5 yl 3 5 dihydroxy 6E heptenoic acid calcium salt of Formula I which is simple industrially applicable and economically viable.

The main aspect of the present invention is to provide a novel process for the preparation of Rosuvastatin in higher yield.

The compound of Formula II is condensed with compound of Formula III a or III b in presence of base. This condensation is carried out in a single organic solvent like ether tetrahydrofuran hydrocarbon solvents like heptane hexane or mixture thereof. The preferred solvents are tetrahydrofuran and hexane. The base used in the above condensation is selected from n butyllithium lithium hexamethyldisilazane sodium hexamethyldisilazane lithium diisopropylamine etc more preferably lithium hexamethyldisilazine. The condensation reaction is carried out at a temperature ranging from 78 C. to 20 C. After completion the reaction is quenched with 5 N HCl and extracted with an organic solvent to give a diasteromeric mixture of compounds of Formula IV a or Formula IV b. The mixture of compound of Formula IV a or Formula IV b which contains predominantly diastereomers IV c or IV d with 3 S configuration is crystallized to give diastereomerically pure IV c or IV d with the following structures

The purification of the diastereomeric mixture of compounds of Formula IV a or Formula IV b is achieved in hexane ethyl acetate butyl acetate toluene MTBE acetone acetonitrile IPE and mixtures thereof. The compound of Formula IV c or IVd is converted to enatiomerically pure compound of Formula V by treating the compound of Formula IV c or Formula IV d with a lower alcohol such as methanol ethanol in the presence of a base such as potassium carbonate sodium carbonate and the like.

Alternatively the mixture of compound of Formula IV a or IV b is first hydrolyzed to its corresponding acid of the following Formula X

The enantiomerically pure compound of Formula V is protected with a suitable hydroxy protecting group like tertiary butyl dimethylsilyl dihydropyran etc. The protection is carried out in an organic solvent selected from toluene N N Dimethylformamide tetrahydrofuran dichloromethane etc. with or without an acid catalyst. The acid catalyst can be chosen from pyridinium p toluene sulfonate p toluenesulfonic acid acetic acid etc. The hydroxy protection is carried out at a temperature ranging from 0 50 C. preferably at 0 30 C. The compound of Formula VI is isolated by washing the organic layer with water and evaporating the solvent.

The compound of Formula VI is treated with anion generated from acetates like ethyl acetate phenyl acetate methyl acetate t butyl acetate in an organic solvent. For anion generation several bases can be used like n butyllithium lithium diisopropylethylamine lithium hexamethyldisilazane sodium hexamethyldisilazane or inorganic bases in combination with phase transfer catalyst more preferably lithium diisopropylethylamine is used. The solvent employed is selected from tetrahydrofuran methyl tert butyl ether isopropyl ether hexane heptane or mixture thereof. The reaction is carried out at temperature 78 C. to 0 C. The reaction mixture is quenched in 1N HCl and extracted with a suitable organic solvent to produce compound of Formula VII.

The compound of Formula VII is deprotected using acid catalysts like p toluenesulfonic acid acetic acid hydrochloric acid hydrofluoric acid etc. or salts such as sodium fluoride potassium fluoride. The preferred acid catalyst employed is p toluenesulfonic acid to give hydroxy compound of Formula VIII.

The compound of Formula VIII is stereoselectively reduced with metal borohydrides in presence of chelating agent like trialkylboranes or boranates like dialkyl alkoxy boranes. This stereoselective reduction is carried out in one or more organic solvents with sodium borohydride potassium borohydride calcium borohydride and chelating agent at low temperatures. The reduction is carried out in one or more organic solvents at 10 to 80 C. After completion of the reaction excess borohydride is destroyed by acetic acid or high bases like sodium bicarbonate potassium bicarbonate and resulting compound of Formula IX is extracted into organic solvent.

The compound of Formula IX is further converted to Rosuvastatin by following known methods reported in literature. The Rosuvastatin obtained by the process of the present invention is converted into pharmaceutically acceptable salts such as sodium calcium more preferably calcium salt.

The process for preparing 2E 3 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonylamino pyrimidin 5 yl propenal of Formula II

The compound of Formula XII is reacted with a phosphorous compound of Formula XIII optionally in the presence of a base such as organic or inorganic base and a solvent selected from acetonitrile dichloromethane tetrahydrofuran methanol ethanol isopropyl alcohol and mixtures thereof at temperature ranging from 20 to 90 C. preferably 40 80 C. for 8 h to yield a compound of Formula XIV. The organic base is selected from sodium methoxide lithium diisopropylamide n butyllithium lithium hexamethyldisilazane sodium hexamethyldisilazane. The inorganic base is selected from sodium hydride potassium hydride sodium hydroxide potassium carbonate. The obtained compound of Formula XIV is reduced using a reducing agent such as DIBAL Vitride LAH etc. in an organic solvent such as toluene tetrahydrofuran at 70 to 80 C. preferably at 78 C. to yield a compound of Formula XV. The compound of Formula XV is oxidized using an oxidizing agent such as pyridiniumdichromate PDC pyridinium chlorochromate PCC manganese dioxide MnO 2 2 6 6 tetramethylpiperidine N oxide TEMPO and tetrapropylammoniumperrutheniate TPAP sodium hypochlorite NaOCl TEMPO N methylmorpholine N oxide NMO and the like at the temperature ranging from 0 to 100 C. preferably at 0 to 20 C. to yield compound of Formula II.

The invention is illustrated with the following examples which are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed to limit the scope of the invention.

4 4 Fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonylamino pyrimidine 5 ylcarboxaldehyde 5 g was dissolved in acetonitrile 25 ml and to the resulting solution Methyl triphenylphosphoranylidene acetate 5.23 g was added at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred at 80 81 C. for 8 h for completion. Thereafter acetonitrile was distilled off under reduced pressure to give crude mass which was crystallized from isopropyl alcohol to yield pure methyl 2E 3 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonylamino pyrimidin 5 yl propenoate.

Methyl 2E 3 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl 1 propenoate 5.4 g obtained in step I above was dissolved in toluene 30 ml and the resulting solution was cooled to 78 C. To this solution diisobutylaluminium hydride 20 solution in toluene 45.2 ml was added and the reaction mass was stirred at 70 C. for 15 min. Thereafter reaction mass was poured into aqueous hydrochloric acid 1N 30 ml . The organic layer was separated and washed with water 20 ml . The solvent was distilled under reduced pressure to yield pure 2E 3 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonylamino pyrimidin 5 yl propen 1 ol.

Methyl 2E 3 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl propen 1 ol 5.1 g was added to molecular sieves 1 g in dichloromethane 50 ml and stirred for 15 min at room temperature. A solution of pyridinium dichromate 6.07 g in dichloromethane 20 ml was added to the above reaction mixture and continued stirring for 5 h at room temperature. After completion of the reaction the reaction mass was filtered through a column of silica gel 230 400 mesh and the eluate was distilled under reduced pressure to yield a semi solid compound which was crystallized from Hexane Ethyl acetate 95 5 v v to yield 2E 3 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonylamino pyrimidin 5 yl propenal.

A mixture of hexamethyldisilazane 33.5 ml 0.15 mol and tetrahydrofuran 50 ml was cooled to 10 C. under nitrogen atmosphere. n Butyllithium 3.92 ml 14 in Hexanes was added over a period of 20 min Exothermic keeping the temperature below 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 to 5 C. for 15 min and then cooled to 35 C. before adding 2 S acetoxy 1 1 2 triphenylethanol 4.84 g 0.014 mol over a period of 5 min. The temperature of the reaction mixture was allowed to go up to 15 C. and stirred for 45 min. The resulting homogeneous yellow solution was cooled to 78 C. and a solution of 2E 3 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonylamino pyrimidin 5 yl propenal 5 g 0.013 mol in tetrahydrofuran 20 ml was added over a period of 30 min maintaining the temperature at 75 to 78 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for 40 min at 78 C. and then slowly raised the temperature to 0 C. over a period of 20 min. The reaction mass was quenched by adding aqueous hydrochloric acid 5N 30 ml . The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 50 ml . The combined organic extracts were washed with saturated sodium chloride solution 50 ml and evaporated to get a solid mass. The product obtained from the above process was crystallized from hexane ethyl acetate 9 1 v v 50 ml .

The product obtained in example 2 was dissolved in methanol and added anhydrous potassium carbonate 4 g . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h and methanol was distilled out from the reaction below 40 C. under reduced pressure. Water 50 ml was added to the resulting residue and extracted with methylene chloride 50 ml . The methylene chloride layer was separated washed with water 50 ml dried over sodium sulfate and evaporated to dryness to obtain a viscous liquid. The product was purified by column chromatography using silica gel and hexane ethyl acetate 80 20 v v 

The product of example 3 5.5 g 0.012 mol was dissolved in methylene chloride 55 ml and pyridinium p toluenesulfonate was added 0.55 g at 25 C. followed by 3 4 dihydro 2H pyran 1.34 ml 0.014 mol . The reaction mass was stirred at room temperature for 24 h and added water 20 ml . The methylene chloride layer was separated washed with water 20 ml dried over sodium sulfate and evaporated under reduced pressure at below 40 C. to obtain the product as an oily mass which was used in the subsequent reaction without further purification.

A mixture of diisopropylamine 8.5 ml 0.06 mol and tetrahydrofuran 35 ml was cooled to 10 C. and added n butyllithium 18.8 ml 14 solution in hexanes slowly over a period of 15 min keeping the temperature below 0 C. The mixture was stirred for 30 min keeping the temperature between 0 to 5 C. Thereafter the mixture was cooled to 78 C. and added tert butyl acetate 1.8 ml 0.013 mol slowly over a period of 30 min maintaining the temperature below 75 C. The reaction mass was stirred for 30 min keeping the temperature between 75 to 78 C. The product of example 4 6.5 g 0.012 mol was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 20 ml and added to the reaction mass slowly over a period of 20 min at 78 C. The reaction mass was stirred at 78 C. for 1 h and quenched by slow addition of 1N aqueous hydrochloric acid 10 ml . The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layer was washed with water 20 ml dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and evaporated to get the product as an oily mass and used as such in the next step.

The product obtained as per the procedure of example 4 7.0 g 0.01 mol was dissolved in isopropyl alcohol 28 ml and p toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate 0.28 g 0.0014 mol was added to it. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 24 h. After completion of the reaction solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure at below 40 C. and water 20 ml was added to it. The product was extracted using dichloromethane 35 ml and washed the organic phase with water 20 ml . The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate and evaporated the solvent to obtain the product

t Butyl 6E 7 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl 5S 5 hydroxy 3 oxo heptenoate 2 g 0.003 mol was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 54 ml and methanol 14 ml at 25 30 C. under nitrogen atmosphere. The mixture was cooled to 78 C. and diethylmethoxy borane 1 ml 48 solution in tetrahydrofuran 0.004 mol was added to it drop wise at 78 C. over a period of 10 min. The mixture was stirred at 75 C. to 78 C. for one hour and sodium borohydride 0.14 gm 0.003 mol was added to it slowly over a period of 15 min. It was stirred for 2 h at 75 C. to 78 C. and quenched by adding acetic acid 2 ml at 78 C. Saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 50 ml was added to it and stirred for 15 min. The organic layer was separated and aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 25 ml . The combined organic layer was washed with water 25 ml and dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was distilled out at 35 40 C. under reduced pressure to obtain the title compound.

Rosuvastatin t butyl ester 1 g was dissolved in ethanol 15 ml . The resulting solution was treated with 1 N aqueous sodium hydroxide 1.96 ml at 25 30 C. The mixture was stirred for 1 h at 25 30 C. for completion of hydrolysis. Ethanol was rotoevaporated and the residue is diluted with DM water 25 ml and extracted with a mixture of ethyl acetate toluene 4 6 2 20 ml .

To the above aqueous layer a solution of N N dibenzylethylenediamine diacetate 0.34 g dissolved in 2 ml of water was added and stirred for 2 h. The precipitated product was filtered washed with water and dried under vacuum at 40 45 C.

N N dibenzylethylenediamine rosuvastatin 0.5 g was dissolved in methanol 1 ml and treated with ethyl acetate 5 ml at 25 30 C. The resulting mixture was cooled to 0 5 C. and stirred for 1 h. The precipitated product was filtered and dried under vacuum.

PXRD 2 5.6 10.1 11.3 13.0 14.7 15.1 16.0 16.3 17.0 17.3 17.8 18.6 19.0 21.3 21.9 22.5 23.5 25.4 30.9 32.7 0.2

N N dibenzylethylenediamine rosuvastatin salt 2 g was dissolved in a mixture of ethyl acetate 30 ml and DM water 30 ml and cooled to 0 5 C. The above cold mixture was treated with aqueous hydrochloric acid 3 ml at 0 5 C. The resulting clear solution was stirred for 10 min. The organic layer was separated washed with water and cooled to 0 5 C. Aqueous sodium hydroxide 1 N 30 ml was added to the above organic layer and stirred at room temperature for 30 min for conversion of rosuvasatin acid to it sodium salt. Toluene 70 ml was added to the above mixture and stirred for 10 min. The aqueous layer was separated and traces of solvent were removed at 40 45 C. under vacuum. The resulting clear aqueous layer was treated with an aqueous solution of calcium chloride 1N 3 ml and resulting rosuvastatin calcium was filtered and dried.

N N dibenzylethylenediamine rosuvastatin salt 1 g was suspended in DM water 20 ml and treated with aqueous sodium hydroxide solution 0.1N 16.63 ml at 25 30 C. The resulting suspension was stirred for 30 min and the undissolved matter was filtered off. The clear aqueous layer was washed twice with 30 v v ethyl acetate toluene 5 ml . Traces of organic solvent from aqueous layer was removed under vacuum at 40 45 C. The clear aqueous layer containing Rosuvastatin sodium was treated with aqueous solution of calcium chloride 1 N 1.66 ml precipitated rosuvastatin calcium was filtered washed with water and dried.

 4E 5 4 4 Fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 N methyl N methylsulfonylamino pyrimidin 5 yl 3 hydroxy 4 pentenoic acid 100 gm 0.228 ml which contains predominantly S isomer was dissolved in acetonitrile 1 litre and R methylbenzylamine 27.7 gm 0.228 ml was added to it dropwise over a period of 30 min during which salt precipitated out. The above suspension was heated to 70 75 C. and water 75 ml was added to it to get a clear solution which was subsequently cooled to 25 C. to reprecipitate the product. It was further cooled to 5 10 C. filtered and washed with chilled acetonitrile 150 ml 5 10 C. . The product obtained was dried at 40 45 C. under vacuum to constant weight.

 4E 5 4 4 Fluorophenyl 6 isopropyl 2 methyl methylsulfonyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl 3S 3 hydroxy 4 pentenoic acid methylbenzylamine salt 75 gm 0.134 mol was suspended in a mixture of methylene chloride 125 ml and water 125 ml at 25 C. The above suspension was cooled to 2 5 C. and pH was adjusted to 3 3.5 by slow addition of IN aqueous Hydrochloric acid. Thereafter the organic layer was separated washed with water 125 ml and evaporated to dryness to get the pure product.

