---

title: Method and apparatus for enabling highlighter services for visitors to web pages
abstract: A method and user interface object for invoking a highlighting service to operate with a web page are disclosed. Consistent with one embodiment of the invention, a highlighting web portal associated with a highlighting service provides a web page for selecting one or more user interface objects to be added to a content provider's web page. Each user interface object is displayed with its associated snippet of code, making it simple for a web author to copy and paste the code into his or her own web page. Once embedded in a web page, the code snippet displays a user interface object (e.g., button) on the web page, and when pressed or selected, invokes a highlighting service. Alternatively, the highlighting service may be automatically invoked without requiring the selection of a button.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07966623&OS=07966623&RS=07966623
owner: 
number: 07966623
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070622
---
The present application claims the benefit of the filing date of the U.S. Provisional Patent Application with Ser. No. 60 815 467 filed on Jun. 22 2006 the contents of which are incorporated herewith.

The present invention relates generally to computer network based information retrieval and sharing techniques. More particularly the present invention relates to methods and systems that enable content providers and authors of web based content to enable highlighter functionality on their web pages.

A wealth of information is available on the Internet and particularly that segment of the Internet referred to generally as the World Wide Web. However despite vast improvements in search engines finding the particular information that one is interested in can still be a challenging and time consuming task. Perhaps even more frustrating is the lack of tools available to enable a user to retrieve previously searched for and discovered information. In the realm of search and retrieval search engines aid in the search but leave much to be desired when it comes to information retrieval.

One common mechanism used for information retrieval is referred to generally as a Bookmark. A bookmark is a mechanism or function enabling a user to save a copy of a uniform resource locator URL . For example if a user finds an article of interest at a URL for an interesting article the user can save the URL as a bookmark so that at a later time the user can simply select e.g. with a mouse or other pointing device the bookmark to reload the document associated with the URL. The user might choose to categorize the bookmarks. Traditionally bookmarks have been facilitated by a web browser application and stored at the computer on which the web browser application resides. However more recently online bookmarking services have provided users with a way to store bookmarks online making the bookmarks accessible from any network connected computer.

As a means of information retrieval bookmarks have several shortcomings. One problem with bookmarks is they provide little if any explanation or context as to what it is about the associated document that may be significant. For instance a bookmark simply associates a URL with a document. A user may generate a bookmark for a particular web page because of a single passage in an article or a particular blog entry on a web page with many blog entries. When the user retrieves the web page at a later time by means of selecting the bookmark the user may not be able to remember what it is that is significant about the web page and why he or she generated the bookmark in the beginning.

Another problem with bookmarks is that they become stale and in some cases expire over time. For instance an internet document may change between the time that a user generates a bookmark and then revisits the associated web page at a later time. In some cases a URL may expire altogether. For example the document associated with the URL may be removed from the server such that the URL returns an error message indicating the document no longer exists.

Another problem with bookmarks is they are a less than ideal mechanism for sharing information. For example to share information with a bookmark facilitated by a web browser application a user must generally email the bookmark to another user. When the recipient receives the email including the bookmark the user must select the link if the bookmark is implemented as a user selectable link in order to initiate loading of the associated document in the user s web browser application. Often the bookmark is not a user selectable link. In this case the user must copy and paste or type the corresponding URL of the bookmark into the address bar of the web browser application. The copy and paste method sometimes does not work because of special characters such as carriage return and line feed characters inserted by email programs in the URL. In any case the additional steps required to access the relevant document are often viewed as burdensome. Often it is only the most determined individuals who end up going through the process necessary to load the relevant document. When the relevant document is finally loaded into and displayed by the recipient s web browser the recipient of the bookmark may not appreciate the relevance of the associated document. Thus improved tools for information retrieval and collaboration are needed.

Web based content providers such as news websites and or blog websites often provide users with a button enabling the user to generate and send an email including a hyperlink back to a news story or blog entry or a copy of the news story or blog entry embedded in the email. Accordingly if a friend would like to share a news story from a news website or a blog entry from a blog website the user can simply press e.g. with a mouse or pointing device a graphical user interface button to generate an email with an embedded copy of or a link to the relevant web page. The recipient of the email can then view the relevant web page either directly in the email or by selecting a hyperlink in the email.

Sharing content in this manner has a few drawbacks. First because many websites generate emails that only include a hyperlink back to a relevant web page as opposed to an embedded copy of the relevant web page recipients of such emails must go through the process of loading the relevant web page by selecting copying and pasting or typing the relevant URL of the hyperlink. This means that a recipient of the email must select e.g. with a mouse or pointing device the hyperlink in the email in order to retrieve the relevant article with his or her web browser application. Many users would rather not be bothered with this extra step. Furthermore after the recipient has retrieved the relevant web page with a web browser he or she may still not appreciate the relevance of the specific content. That is the recipient may not understand or realize the significance of the web page as a whole and therefore may not spend the time necessary to read and understand the content.

A method for invoking a highlighting service to operate with a web page are disclosed. According to one embodiment of the invention a content provider server serves an internet document to a client web browser. The internet document includes code that causes the client web browser to invoke a highlighting service to operate with the internet document. In an alternative embodiment the internet document served by the content provider includes a user interface object that enables a user to optionally invoke the highlighting service. For example the user might invoke the highlighting service by interacting with the user interface object e.g. by selecting or traversing the user interface object . Depending upon the embodiment the highlighting service may be invoked directly by the client web browser or indirectly via an agent of the content provider server and or an agent of the highlighting service provider. For example the client web browser may directly communicate a request to the server hosting the highlighting service when a user interacts with the user interface object. Alternatively the client web browser may communicate a request to a software agent operating in conjunction with the content provider server. Accordingly the software agent will relay the request to the highlighting service.

In another embodiment of the invention a server associated with e.g. hosting the highlighting service includes a web page providing users of the highlighting service access to various features of the highlighting service. The web page serves an internet document including a snippet of code that can be inserted into a content provider s internet document or web page by simply copying and pasting the code snippet. For example in one embodiment the code snippet represents a user interface object with associated code. When the content provider serves the internet document including the code snippet the user interface object is displayed. When a user interacts with the user interface button e.g. by selecting it a highlighting service hosted by the highlighting server is invoked thereby enabling users to selectively highlight portions of the content provider s internet document or web page.

Other aspects of the invention will be described in greater detail below in connection with the description of the figures.

Reference will now be made in detail to an implementation consistent with the present invention as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or like parts. Although discussed with reference to these illustrations the present invention is not limited to the implementations illustrated therein. Hence the reader should regard these illustrations merely as examples of embodiments of the present invention the full scope of which is measured only in terms of the claims following this description. In particular many of the various aspects and features of the invention are most easily understood by those skilled in the art when conveyed as user interface features. However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the user interface elements illustrated and described are examples and the invention is not to be limited by those user interface features specifically illustrated in the drawings.

Consistent with an embodiment of the invention a graphical user interface object e.g. a user selectable button hyperlink graphic icon banner text label or widget etc. displayed on an internet document provides a user with the ability to invoke a highlighting service to operate with the currently displayed internet document. For instance the graphical user interface object may be a simple button referred to herein as a Highlight Anywhere Button or generally as a Highlighter button. When a user selects e.g. with a mouse or pointing device the button executable code associated with the button causes a request to be communicated to a highlighter server hosting a highlighting service. In one embodiment of the invention the request includes the address or uniform resource locator URL of the currently displayed internet document. Accordingly the highlighter server responds to the request by enabling the highlighting service with the currently displayed internet document thereby enabling a user to highlight portions of the currently displayed document for later retrieval and or sharing.

In general a user utilizes a web browser application on client computer to access and display content in the form of internet documents or web pages which may be stored in whole or in part on the content provider server . The content provider server serves an internet document or web page that includes a user interface object for invoking a highlighting service. That is the web page served by the content provider server includes a Highlight Anywhere Button consistent with an embodiment of the invention which when displayed in a web browser application and selected by a user causes a highlighting service to be invoked with the web page .

Once a highlighter session has been invoked a user has at his or her disposal a variety of tools for highlighting text and objects of the web page . For instance in one embodiment of the invention a highlighter tool panel will appear in the web browser window and provide the user with a selection of controls enabling various features and functions of the highlighting service. In another embodiment of the invention various controls may be provided by a highlighter toolbar. In any case the basic function of the highlighting service is to enable a user to highlight an object e.g. text graphical images or a combination of the web page such that the highlighted portion s can easily be recalled at a later time and or shared with other users. Accordingly as the user highlights an object the highlighted object or portions thereof are communicated to the highlighter server where it may optionally be stored. In one embodiment of the invention the highlighted object e.g. a selection of text is stored along with any annotations the user may have added as well as a date and time indicating when the highlight was generated. The highlighted object and its associated data are stored in such a manner as to be optionally associated with the user who generated the highlight. This allows the user to recall and view highlights from previous highlighting sessions. Other aspects and features of the highlighting service are described in related and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 766 786 entitled Method and Apparatus for Highlighting a Portion of An Internet Document for Collaboration and Subsequent Retrieval filed on Jun. 21. 2007 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

As illustrated in when a user invokes the highlighting service by selecting the Highlighter button on the web page in his or her browser the browser communicates a request directly to the highlighter server . As illustrated in in an alternative embodiment of the invention the content provider server includes a highlighter service agent which works in conjunction with the web server component to communicate messages e.g. API messages to the highlighter server . Accordingly when a user selects a Highlighter button to invoke a highlighting service a request is communicated from the client browser to the content provider web server component . In turn the request is handled by the highlighter service agent which communicates an API call to the highlighter server thereby invoking the highlighting service.

In one embodiment of the invention the highlighter service agent is provided by the operator of the highlighting service to the enterprise. For example the highlighting service operator may configure the highlighter service agent to be integrated with and work with the content provider s server as well as the highlighting service. Accordingly the highlighter service agent can be customized to support and provide those highlighting features desired and requested by a particular enterprise. For instance an enterprise offering a news website may desire a subset of highlighting service features specific to its website and different from the subset of features that may be desired and or requested by an enterprise providing a social networking website. The highlighter service agent can be configured on a per enterprise basis and enables each enterprise to seamlessly integrate a highlighting service to work with its website.

Although the highlighter server is shown to be a separate node on the network in an alternative embodiment of the invention the highlighting service provided by the highlighting server may be integrated with or reside on the content provider server or another server maintained and or operated by the content provider.

In one embodiment of the invention once the code is embedded in a another web page e.g. the target web page the code will cause a button such as the button with reference number in to be displayed on the target web page when the page is rendered by a web browser application. When a user selects the button a highlighting session will be invoked and the user will be able to highlight text and or objects on the target web page. This provides a simple way for content providers to enhance the functionality and usability of their websites.

In an alternative embodiment of the invention the code automatically causes the client web browser to invoke a highlighting service for example without requiring a user to select or press a user interface object or button on the web page. For example when the user loads the web page in which the code has been embedded the client web browser will invoke the highlighting service to work with the web page.

The code snippet illustrated in may be provided via a web page served by the highlighting service. However those skilled in the art will appreciate that an operator of the highlighting service may communicate or otherwise provide the code to an enterprise in a number of ways. For example the code snippet for invoking the highlighting service may be emailed to an enterprise or provided for example by a consultant.

Finally illustrates an example of a user profile web page including a user interface object for invoking a highlighting service according to an embodiment of the invention. As illustrated in the Highlight It button enables users of a social networking site to highlight aspects of a user s profile and share the highlights with others.

The foregoing description of various implementations of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not exhaustive and does not limit the invention to the precise form or forms disclosed. Furthermore it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the present invention may find practical application in a variety of alternative contexts that have not explicitly been addressed herein. Finally the illustrative processing steps performed by a computer implemented program e.g. instructions may be executed simultaneously or in a different order than described above and additional processing steps may be incorporated. The invention may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. When implemented partly in software the invention may be embodied as a set of instructions stored on a computer readable medium. The scope of the invention is defined by the claims and their equivalents.

