---

title: Methods and systems for processing card-not-present financial transactions as card-present financial transactions
abstract: Methods and systems for processing and facilitating the processing of payment card transactions between remote merchants and purchaser/card holders as authenticated card-present transactions, and for reducing processing fees charged to merchants. Purchaser/card holders are provided with payment card readers, and optionally, with biometric readers and/or personal identification number (“PIN”) key pads. When a payment card transaction is to be conducted between a merchant and a purchaser/card holder, the purchaser/card holder is connected or redirected to a remote face-to-face (“RF2F”) program/system. The RF2F program/system is configured to receive personal identification information from the purchaser/card holder, and optionally from the biometric reader and/or PIN key pad, and to authenticate the purchaser/card holder. The RF2F program/systemRF2F program/system/system is further configured to receive payment card information from the payment card reader, and to authenticate the payment card. The RF2F program/systemRF2F program/system/system is thus able to authenticate the payment card transaction as a card-present transaction. Accordingly, card processors and/or financial institutions, in cooperation with participating merchants and consumers, can reduce the number of fraudulent transactions occurring in the marketplace. RF2F payment card processing will reduce the cost of payment card related fraud as well as the processing fees charged to merchants. Methods and systems for rewarding merchants and purchaser/card holders are disclosed herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08099363&OS=08099363&RS=08099363
owner: 
number: 08099363
owner_city: Severna Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070723
---
This patent application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 947 411 titled Methods and Systems for Processing Card Not Present Financial Transactions as Card Present Financial Transactions filed Jun. 30 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Disclosed herein are methods and systems for processing card not present payment card transactions as card present payment card transactions.

An Acquirer is an organization licensed as a member of Visa MasterCard as an affiliated bank or bank processor alliance that is in the business of processing payment card transactions and contracts with merchants for Visa MasterCard acceptance and enables card payments from customers. Acquirers charge merchants for processing payment card transactions. Processing fees typically include discount fees and transaction fees. Discount fees are normally charged as a percentage of a transaction amount. Transaction fees are normally flat fees charged per transaction typically in addition to the discount fees though they can be translated into a percentage and bundled into the discount rate as well.

Discount and or transaction fees together referred to herein as processing fees vary depending upon a variety of often proprietary criteria associated with card categories.

Card categories can include account related categories such as personal accounts and business accounts and transaction related categories such as in person or card present transactions and remote or card not present transactions. Card not present transactions include transactions conducted by telephone facsimile over the Internet or other communication network or by mail.

Processing fees typically reflect the perceived risk or potential fraud associated with the categories. For example card present transactions are considered less prone to fraud and thus less risky than card not present transactions. This is due in part to the ability to authenticate both the user and user s possession of the payment card. Accordingly higher processing fees are charged for card not present financial transactions.

What is needed are methods and systems for reducing risk associated with remote or card not present financial transactions.

The following summary of the invention provides an understanding of at least some aspects of the invention. The summary is not an extensive overview of the invention. It is not intended to identify key or critical elements of the invention nor is it intended to delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Methods and systems are disclosed for processing and facilitating the processing of payment card transactions between remote merchants and purchaser card holders as in person or card present transactions and for reducing processing fees charged to merchants.

Purchaser card holders utilize card readers e.g. magnetic stripe readers and or smart card readers and optionally biometric readers and or personal identification number PIN key pads. When a payment card transaction is to be conducted between a merchant and a purchaser card holder the purchaser card holder is connected or redirected to a Remote Face to Face RF2F program and or system hereinafter program system . The RF2F program system is configured to receive personal identification information from the purchaser card holder and optionally from the biometric reader and or PIN key pad and to authenticate the purchaser card holder. The RF2F program system is also configured to receive payment card information from the card reader and to authenticate the payment card. The RF2F program system is thus able to authenticate the payment card transaction as a card present transaction. Accordingly the processing fees charged to merchants will be commensurate with processing fees charged for card present transactions.

Further embodiments features and advantages of the present invention as well as the structure and operation of the various embodiments of the present invention are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings. These aspects are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the invention may be employed and the present invention is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Further features and advantages will be apparent to a person skilled in the art based on the description set forth herein and or may be learned by practice of the invention.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing summary and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further explanation of embodiments of the invention as claimed.

Disclosed herein are methods and systems for processing payment card transactions between remote payors and payees as card present financial transactions.

As used herein the phrase payment card transaction refers to an electronic financial transaction that involves a card having information stored or imbedded on and or within the card such as in a magnetic strip an embedded memory device chip or the like which data can be read by an electronic and or optical card reader. Such cards include for example and without limitation credit cards check cards debit cards smart cards consolidation cards electronic checks and or an Automated Clearing House ACH transactions.

As used herein the phrase consolidation card refers to a card or device that facilitates access to or use of one or more financial accounts through a user interface at a point of sale face to face or remotely such as over the Internet or a telephone transaction. A consolidation card can provide access to without limitation one or more of but is not limited to credit cards check cards checking accounts savings accounts investment accounts and equity accounts.

As used herein the phrase remote face to face program system or RF2F program system refers to a service offering of a card processor and or an authorized processing service reseller and or financial institution alone and or in combination with one another and or in combination with one or more merchants in which merchants and purchasers card holders enroll and are provided with services for processing or facilitating the processing of remote payment card transactions between the merchants and the purchasers card holders as card present authenticated financial transactions.

RF2F program system or portions thereof can include without limitation one or more of an individual a computer computer peripherals an office or home communication equipments policies procedures business methods and combinations thereof. RF2F program system or portions thereof can be implemented with hardware software firmware manually and or combinations thereof as a whollyautomated system a partially automated system or a manual system.

RF2F program system can be implemented within or by a conventional card processor and or processing service reseller together referred to herein as a card processor that processes payment card transactions. Alternatively or additionally RF2F program system can be implemented as a stand alone entity or program and or integrated in whole or in part within one or more financial institutions and or payees .

Payees and payors are remote from one another in that payees are not face to face with the payors and are unable to receive information from payment cards in the possession of payors via conventional face to face methods such as but not limited to swiping the payor s card through a magnetic stripe reader or manual card data entry at the payee location and or do not have an ability to authenticate payees as authorized users of the payment cards.

RF2F program system receives payment card information from one or more card readers located physically proximate to payor s and interfaces with payee s financial institution s and or card processor s to authenticate payor s and the card information. As a result RF2F program system processes and or facilitates the processing of payment card transactions between payee s and payor s as card present transactions.

Card readers facilitate swiped card present transactions. Card readers can be stand alone card readers that communicate card information directly to RF2F program system or can be coupled to a computer associated with a corresponding payor wherein card swipe information is provided to RF2F program system via the computers associated with payor .

One or more optional biometric readers are located physically proximate to one or more payors . Biometric readers can be stand alone biometric readers or can be coupled to a computer associated with corresponding payees as described above with respect to card readers . Biometric readers can include without limitation a fingerprint scanner an eye scanner an imaging device such as a still camera or video camera a speech recorder and or other biometric measuring and or recording devices.

One or more personal identification number PIN keypads may be located physically proximate to one or more payors . PIN keypads can be stand alone PIN keypads or can be coupled to a computer associated with corresponding payees as described above with respect to card readers . PIN keypads can include encryption hardware and or software.

PIN keypads can be used for one or more types of payment card transactions including without limitation debit and or check card transactions. A PIN keypad can be used in combination with one or more application programs running on a computer at payor . This is particularly useful for debit card transactions because PIN based debit processing fees tend to be significantly lower than credit card processing fees.

Card readers biometric readers and or PIN keypads are optionally provided by RF2F program system payees card processor financial institutions and or distributors associated therewith. Incentives for providing readers to payors include reduced security risks and corresponding processing fee reductions. Alternatively card readers biometric readers and or PIN keypads are obtained by payors from one or more other sources.

Communication links illustrated in between RF2F program system card processor payees payors card readers biometric readers PIN keypads and financial institutions can include for example and without limitation one or more of cable telephone wireless coupled directly or through a network such as the Internet and or proprietary networks as well as conventional physical delivery and or combinations thereof. One or more conventional security and or encryption features can be implemented as part of the communication links.

One or more financial institutions card processors and or payees may impose rules requirements and or restrictions on card based financial transactions in order to treat the transactions as card present transactions rather than card not present transactions. RF2F program system is configurable and optionally dynamically configurable to comply with and or accommodate such rules requirements and or restrictions.

In the example of RF2F program system is illustrated to interface with multiple payees payors card processors and financial institutions . This provides a variety of advantages such as economies of scale and outsourcing of card processing tasks such a management of data. A RF2F program system that coordinates with a number of payees tends to process a greater number of transactions and or a greater overall value of transactions than an individual payee . As such RF2F program system will generally be in a stronger position relative to a typical single payee to negotiate reduced processing fees charged to payees by financial institutions .

In operation when a payor and a payee agree or determine to conduct a payment card transaction RF2F program system is notified or activated to intervene and receive information from a card reader that is proximate to payor . RF2F program system also authenticates payor as an authorized user of the payment card. Authentication can include without limitation receiving from payor personal identification information such a personal identification number or PIN a password an electronic key or other electronic file e.g. picture or video electronic signature biometric information and or a combination thereof. When RF2F program system conducts and or facilitates a payment card transaction card processor and or a corresponding financial institution is notified of the transaction and notified that the transaction constitutes a card present financial transaction with user authentication. The financial institution can then debit credit or otherwise account for the payment card transaction. The RF2F program system card processor and or financial institution charge the payee a card present processing fee. Additional exemplary operation is described below with respect to and .

The method is described below with reference to the block diagrams of and . The method is not however limited to the example embodiments of and . Based on the description herein one skilled in the relevant art s will understand that the method can be implemented in other embodiments.

The process begins with an enrollment registration process in which information is gathered from payee s payor s card processor s . and or financial institutions Enrollment information is typically stored in a database or other storage system associated with RF2F program system . Alternatively enrollment information or portions thereof can be stored at payee payor and or card processor in which case the information can be provided to RF2F program system as needed during transactions.

Payees generally enroll through card processor in advance of initiation of payment card transactions with payors . Payee enrollment information can include business and individual user identification information and account information for financial accounts between payees card processor and financial institutions .

Payors can enroll in advance of or during a payment card transaction such as upon prompting by payee card processor and or RF2F program system . Payor enrollment information can include for example and without limitation personal identification information such as name address and birth date selection of security questions answers to security questions selection of Site Key selection of one or more personal identification numbers PINS or passwords biometric information and account information for one or more payment card accounts associated with payors and financial institutions .

As part of the enrollment registration process RF2F program system optionally provides one or more data objects to payees and or payors directly and or through card processor . The data objects include data and or computer executable code. The data objects can be in the form of for example and without limitation hyperlinks interfaces including graphical user interfaces and or application programming interfaces APIs cookies applets keys encryption data and or code picture files and or video files. The data objects can be used for establishing communication links security and or personal and or account identification functions.

For example and without limitation payees are optionally provided with computer executable code and or one or more hyperlinks to RF2F program system and or card processor and or otherwise configured to interface with RF2F program system and or card processor and or to communicate with payors through RF2F program system and or card processor in which RF2F program system and or card processor is used as a gateway.

The data objects can be configured to be automatically or manually initiated activated and or retrieved when a payment card transaction is initiated or during the course of a transaction between any combination of payees payors RF2F program system and card processor .

An exemplary transaction is now described with reference to blocks and information flow illustrated in and .

At step a payee receives an order or transaction request from a payor . Transaction request can include for example a request to purchase a product or service from payee .

Transaction request can be provided by voice over telephone or other network by text via facsimile electronic mail or text message e.g. instant messaging or SMS or through a graphical user interface such as over the Internet or other network.

Transaction request typically includes an identification of the payor and a payment amount associated with the financial transaction. For example where payor communicates with payee through an Internet connection payor optionally directs a computer to an Internet site associated with payee . Payor can then select a product or service from a list of offerings available on the Internet site. The purchase process or check out as it is commonly referred to typically requires payor to provide a user identification and password which serve to identify payor . Alternatively payor provides an electronic mail address network address or an identification code obtained during enrollment registration process . Optionally a data object provided to payor during enrollment registration process is called or activated when payor sends transaction request wherein the data object provides identification information to payee .

At step a transaction intent confirmation TIC is sent to payor . TIC is typically a data object configured to direct payor to RF2F program system or to establish communication between payor and RF2F program system directly or through card processor . TIC can be configured to comply with rules requirements and or restrictions of financial institutions card processors and or payees . In the example of TIC is generated by payee and sent directly to payor . Alternatively RF2F program system and or card processor are involved in sending and or generating TIC . For example in payee sends a transaction data packet to card processor as indicated by and or to RF2F program system as indicated by . Card processor and or RF2F program system then generate TIC and send it to payor . Transaction data packet can be sent for example as information provided by payee through a graphical user interface GUI hosted by RF2F program system card processor and accessible to payee through an Internet portal.

In an embodiment TIC is or includes an electronic mail message with a textual description of the proposed transaction and a prompt for payor to accept or continue the transaction. The prompt can be in the form of a selectable hyperlink to RF2F program system labeled for example accept or continue. 

The hyperlink can be to a unique uniform resource locator URL of RF2F program system dedicated to or generated for the particular transaction and having access to the transaction details. Alternatively the hyperlink can be to a general URL of RF2F program system wherein upon or after selection of the hyperlink additional information is provided to RF2F program system to allow RF2F program system to associate payor with the transaction details.

The electronic mail message optionally includes a hyperlink to payee labeled for example cancel order or revise order. The hyperlink to payee can link to a unique URL of payee dedicated to or generated for the particular transaction or a general URL of payee .

Alternatively TIC is sent via a GUI that presents content similar to that described above with respect to electronic mail messages. The GUI can be generated presented or hosted by payee RF2F program system and or card processor or can be generated at least in part by code resident at payor that was provided during enrollment.

TIC optionally includes a prompt for payor to enroll into the RF2F program system with RF2F program system . The prompt can be in the form of a selectable hyperlink to RF2F program system .

At step payor is presented with prompts to confirm or continue the transaction or to revise or cancel the transaction. When payor selects to revise or cancel the transaction processing proceeds to step where payor is connected to payee to revise or cancel the transaction. Alternatively when payor selects to cancel the transaction processing can terminate. When payor selects to continue with the transaction processing proceeds to step .

At step payor is connected to RF2F program system as described above. Once connected RF2F program system and payor send prompts responses and or other communications to one another.

At step RF2F program system receives security identification information . Security identification information can include for example and without limitation personal identification information password s PIN s biometric information and or account selection identification information. Security identification information or a portion thereof may be sent to RF2F program system under control of a user at payor following a prompt from RF2F program system . Multiple users can conduct payment card transactions at a given payor . Each additional user associated with a given payor would be enrolled into the RF2F program system in the same manner as payor . Alternatively or additionally security identification information or a portion thereof is sent to RF2F program system without input from a user at payor following a computer readable prompt from RF2F program system that initiates computer readable code resident at payor such as a cookie applet or other code sent to payor during the registration process.

At step RF2F program system receives payment card information e.g. card swipe data from card reader . Step typically follows a prompt from RF2F program system and or payee to payor to provide or swipe a payment card through card reader .

At step RF2F program system authenticates payor and card information . This includes comparing security identification information with information provided during enrollment of payor and optionally includes confirmation and or authorization from an associated financial institution and or a card processor .

At step card data is communicated to card processor processing service reseller and or financial institution and an approval or decline is returned therefrom. The communicated card data can include without limitation card swipe data security identification information responses transaction data packet and or information obtained during enrollment or portions thereof.

At step upon successful authentication of payor and card information and receipt of approval from financial institution and or card processor a transaction approval decline indication is sent to payee and payor . In the example of transaction approval decline indication is sent from RF2F program system . In the example of transaction approval decline indication is sent from card processor in response to a transaction approval indication from RF2F program system. Different transaction approval decline indications can be sent to payee and payor . The transaction approval decline indication sent to payor can be sent from payee .

At step financial institution receives a notification of the payment card transaction indicating that the transaction was conducted as a card present transaction with an authenticated payor . The notification is can be sent from card processor as illustrated in or can be sent from RF2F program system and or payee depending upon rules associated with financial institution .

At step financial institution and or card processor debits an account of payee or otherwise charges or invoices payee for a processing fee e.g. discount fee and or transaction fee . The processing fee can be equal to or similar to a card present processing fee or lower than a typical processing fee for an otherwise similar transaction conducted as a card not present financial transaction.

Financial institution also posts the transaction for payment to the corresponding account of payor for the amount of the financial transaction and credits an account of payee in the amount of the financial transaction.

Financial institutions card processors merchants and purchaser card holders all suffer in some respect from fraudulent payment card transactions. Financial institutions and or card processors suffer direct financial harm when goods or services are fraudulently obtained from merchants payees because the authorizing financial institution and or card processor and or merchant service provider must in many cases credit the payor consumer for the fraudulent transaction. Merchants suffer directly in the form of higher processing fees charged by financial institutions and card processors as a result of card processing related fraud and the resultant charge back of funds taken from them and given back to the payor consumer whose card was used in a fraudulent manner. Merchants are also subject to an ever growing evolving and stringent list of rules and regulations published by the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council PCISSC as put forth in the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard PCIDSS . Heavy fines and penalties are passed down to the merchant who is determined to be at fault in a card data breach. Purchaser card holders or consumers suffer indirectly when the costs of card fraud are passed along to consumers through higher costs for goods and services and directly suffer the financial and mental hardship of dealing with the fraudulent use and theft of their own financial instrument data.

Financial institutions card processors merchants and buyers thus all have incentive to participate in a remote face to face RF2F program.

Disclosed below are methods and systems for further promoting and or encouraging participation in a RF2F program system.

Financial institutions and or card processor can use money saved from reduced fraud to promote and or encourage payees and or payors to enroll in one or more RF2F program systems.

For example financial institutions and or card processor s can charge lower processing fees to payees when payees conduct payment card transactions through a RF2F program system rather than as conventional card not present transactions. Processing fees can be equal to or similar to those charged for conventional card present financial transactions.

Processing fees are optionally negotiated between card processor financial institutions payees and or combinations thereof.

Financial institutions and or multiple card processors can compete with financial institutions card processors respectively based at least in part on participation in a RF2F program system and based on their respective RF2F processing fees.

Payees and or financial institutions optionally promote enrollment into RF2F program system s by payors through rewards programs such as financial credit for future transactions cash back or other promotions or special offers. The rewards programs can be funded with savings described above.

The present invention has been described above with the aid of functional building blocks illustrating the performance of functions and relationships thereof. At least some of the boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternate boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. Any such alternate boundaries are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention.

It is to be appreciated that the Detailed Description section and not the Summary and Abstract sections is intended to be used to interpret the claims. The Summary and Abstract sections can set forth one or more but not all exemplary embodiments of the present invention as contemplated by the inventor and thus are not intended to limit the present invention and the appended claims in any way.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art that various changes in form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

