---

title: Sharing of content and hop distance over a social network
abstract: A method, system, and apparatus are directed to sharing information over a network. A drag-and-drop of a selection of a portion of content may be received at a sharing area. A sharing message may be generated based on a type of the portion. If the type of the portion indicates storage, the sharing message may comprise a hyperlink to a storage. The sharing message may be useable for providing the portion on at least one client device associated with at least one of a plurality of members of a social network. Sharing over the network of the portion between an originating sharing member and the plurality of members of the social network may be enabled. The portion may be shared for a customizable project. A hop distance may be provided for the shared portion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07954058&OS=07954058&RS=07954058
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 07954058
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071214
---
The present invention relates generally to communication on mobile devices and more specifically but not exclusively to sharing content over a social network.

Tremendous changes have been occurring on the Internet that influence our everyday lives. For example online social networks have become the new meeting grounds. The development of such online social networks touches countless aspects of our everyday lives providing instant access to people of similar mindsets and enabling us to form partnerships with more people in more ways than ever before.

One aspect of our everyday lives that may be affected by online social networking technology is the ease with which news stories and other forms of gossip may be shared over the Internet. However all too often while some shared news or gossip may be interesting to some people it may not be interesting to others.

Current web content sharing tools enable copying and pasting content to an application and sending the content. However copying and pasting web content is cumbersome and difficult to use. Thus it is with respect to these considerations and others that the present invention has been made.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which show by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments by which the invention may be practiced. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Among other things the present invention may be embodied as methods or devices. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

Throughout the specification and claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The phrase in one embodiment as used herein does not necessarily refer to the same embodiment though it may. Furthermore the phrase in another embodiment as used herein does not necessarily refer to a different embodiment although it may. Thus as described below various embodiments of the invention may be readily combined without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

In addition as used herein the term or is an inclusive or operator and is equivalent to the term and or unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The term based on is not exclusive and allows for being based on additional factors not described unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. In addition throughout the specification the meaning of a an and the include plural references. The meaning of in includes in and on. As used herein the terms device input or user input refer to a user input command at a device.

As used herein the terms social network and social community refer to a concept of an individual s personal network of friends family colleagues coworkers and the subsequent connections within those networks. A social network for example can be utilized to find more relevant connections for a variety of activities including but not limited to dating job networking service referrals content sharing like minded individuals activity partners or the like.

An online social network refers to a person s set of direct and or indirect personal relationships including real and virtual privileges and permissions that users may associate with these people. Direct personal relationships refers to relationships with people the user communicates with directly including family members friends colleagues coworkers and other people with which the person has had some form of direct contact such as contact in person by telephone by email by instant message by letter or the like. These direct personal relationships are sometimes referred to as first degree relationships. First degree relationships can have varying degrees of closeness trust and other characteristics.

Indirect personal relationships refer to relationships through first degree relationships to people with whom a person has not had some form of direct or limited direct contact such as in being cc d on an e mail message or the like. For example a friend of a friend represents an indirect personal relationship. A more extended indirect relationship might be a friend of a friend of a friend. These indirect relationships are sometimes characterized by a degree of separation between the people. For instance a friend of a friend can be characterized as two degrees of separation or a second degree relationship. Similarly a friend of a friend of a friend can be characterized as three degrees of separation or a third degree relationship and so forth.

As used herein the term web content refers to any data displayable within a markup language document employing for example Handheld Device Markup Language HDML Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript Standard Generalized Markup Language SMGL HyperText Markup Language HTML eXtensible Markup Language XML or the like. As used herein the term hyperlink refers to an addressing component that enables retrieving data over a network including a Uniform Resource Identifier URI Uniform Resource Locator URL or the like.

The following briefly describes the embodiments of the invention in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This brief description is not intended as an extensive overview. It is not intended to identify key or critical elements or to delineate or otherwise narrow the scope. Its purpose is merely to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Briefly the present invention is directed to sharing information over a network. A drag and drop of a selection of a portion of content may be received at a sharing area. A sharing message may be generated based on a type of the portion. If the type of the portion indicates storage the sharing message may comprise a hyperlink to a storage. The sharing message may be useable for providing the portion on at least one client device associated with at least one of a plurality of members of a social network. Sharing over the network of the portion between an originating sharing member and the plurality of members of the social network may be enabled. The portion may be shared for a customizable project. A hop distance may be provided for the shared portion.

Patent application Ser. No. 11 508 596 entitled Persistent Saving Portal filed on Aug. 22 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference describes at least one mechanism for copying organizing or otherwise sharing content and or portions of content over a network into a saving portal. A saving portal may be one embodiment of a project as described herein.

Generally client devices may include virtually any mobile computing device capable of receiving and sending a message over a network such as wireless network or the like. Such devices include portable devices such as cellular telephones smart phones display pagers radio frequency RF devices infrared IR devices Personal Digital Assistants PDAs handheld computers laptop computers wearable computers tablet computers integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices or the like. One embodiment of a mobile device useable as one of client devices is described in more detail below in conjunction with .

Client device may include virtually any computing device that typically connects using a wired communications medium such as personal computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs or the like. In one embodiment client devices may be configured to operate over a wired and or a wireless network.

Client devices typically range widely in terms of capabilities and features. For example a cell phone may have a numeric keypad and a few lines of monochrome LCD display on which only text may be displayed. In another example a web enabled client device may have a touch sensitive screen a stylus and several lines of color LCD display in which both text and graphics may be displayed.

A web enabled client device may include a browser application that is configured to receive and to send web pages web based messages or the like. The browser application may be configured to receive and display graphics text multimedia or the like employing virtually any web based language including a Wireless Application Protocol WAP message or the like. In one embodiment the browser application is enabled to employ Handheld Device Markup Language HDML Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript Standard Generalized Markup Language SMGL HyperText Markup Language HTML eXtensible Markup Language XML or the like to display and send a message.

Client devices also may include at least one other client application that is configured to receive content from another computing device. The client application may include a capability to provide and receive textual content multimedia information or the like. The client application may further provide information that identifies itself including a type capability name or the like. In one embodiment client devices may uniquely identify themselves through any of a variety of mechanisms including a phone number Mobile Identification Number MIN an electronic serial number ESN network address or other device identifier. The information may also indicate a content format that the client device is enabled to employ. Such information may be provided in a message or the like sent to another computing device.

Client devices may also be configured to communicate a message such as through email Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Message Service MMS instant messaging IM Internet relay chat IRC Mardam Bey s IRC mIRC Jabber or the like between another computing device. However the present invention is not limited to these message protocols and virtually any other message protocol may be employed.

Client devices may further be configured to include a client application that enables the user to log into a user account that may be managed by another computing device such as content server CSS or the like. Such user account for example may be configured to enable the user to receive emails send receive IM messages SMS messages access selected web pages participate in a social networking activity provide messages that may include hyperlinks or attachments or the like. However managing of messages may also be performed without logging into the user account.

Thus a user of client devices may employ any of a variety of client applications to access content read articles read messages compose messages send messages or the like. In one embodiment a user of client devices may access a news article or other item of interest from for example content server . The user may then select to forward a message to another user of one of client devices about the accessed content article or the like.

In one embodiment client devices may enable a sharing area for dragging and dropping content from another application and sharing the dragged and dropped content with members of a social network. Client devices may receive a selection of a portion of content. For example a user may drag a rectangular selection over a portion of an HTML page. The selection may be received using an application programming interface API of an operating system an event trigger or the like. The selection may be received in the client application e.g. web browser in a plug in to the client application or the like. The selected portion may then be sent to CSS over networks and or in preparation for sharing with members of a social network. CSS may provide a hyperlink to at least some types of the selected portion on CSS . In one embodiment if the selected portion is a multimedia object CSS provides a hyperlink to a copy of the multimedia object on CSS . In any case a hyperlink or the actual selected portion itself may be forwarded to at least one of client devices .

The message may be forwarded using any of a variety of message protocols including but not limited to SMS IM MMS email or the like. Moreover in one embodiment the forwarded message may include a reference to the content article or message using for example an attachment a hyperlink a copy of the content article or message within the forwarded message or virtually any other mechanism. The user may select to forward the message as a form of gossip or any other form of communication to members of a social network. It should be noted that the term gossip as used herein refers to a classification of content. However the invention is not limited to merely managing gossip messages and any content may be managed using the invention.

In one embodiment the message may be forwarded anonymously such that the recipients may not readily determine from whom the message is actually forwarded. This may be performed in a variety of ways. For example in one embodiment a header of the forwarded message indicating a source of the message may be blank may include an alias a fake identifier or the like.

When another user receives the forwarded message that recipient user may select to ignore the message read the message delete the message or forward the message to at least one other user of one of client devices . In one embodiment as the message is forwarded to other members in the social network a hop distance may be determined in real time. In one embodiment the hop distance may be determined by CSS and provided to each client device receiving and or forwarding the message. However the invention is not so limited and the hop distance may be determined using any of a variety of other mechanisms. For example in one embodiment one or more client devices receiving and or forwarding the message may determine the hop distance. This may be performed using a variety of ways including for example including with the message information about a number of hops the message traversed to reach a recipient sending an acknowledgement back through a chain of forwarding client devices where the acknowledgments may be used to determine the hop distance or any of a variety of other ways. Thus in one embodiment the hop distance may be determined using any of a variety of peer to peer approaches a server based approach or even a combination of peer to peer and server based approach.

In any event the hop distance may then be displayed at a client device in one embodiment along with the message to indicate a level of interest by the members of the social network. That is the more times the message is forwarded by different users in a sequence of users e.g. client devices the greater the determined hop distance. Thus a user may view the hop distance as an indicator of how interesting or news worthy the message may be.

In one embodiment to whom the message is to be forwarded may be determined automatically based on an address book buddy list or any other form of contact list associated with the user requesting the message to be forwarded. For example a user may employ a client application to indicate that a message is to be forwarded. When the indication is received by the client device or other network device the user s contact list may be examined to determine to whom to forward the message. Embodiments of an interface useable to display and otherwise manage messages using a sharing area are described in more detail below in conjunction with A B and C.

Wireless network is configured to couple client devices with network . Wireless network may include any of a variety of wireless sub networks that may further overlay stand alone ad hoc networks or the like to provide an infrastructure oriented connection for client devices . Such sub networks may include mesh networks Wireless LAN WLAN networks cellular networks or the like.

Wireless network may further include an autonomous system of terminals gateways routers or the like connected by wireless radio links or the like. These connectors may be configured to move freely and randomly and organize themselves arbitrarily such that the topology of wireless network may change rapidly.

Wireless network may further employ a plurality of access technologies including 2nd 2G 3rd 3G generation radio access for cellular systems WLAN Wireless Router WR mesh or the like. Access technologies such as 2G 3G and future access networks may enable wide area coverage for client devices such as client devices with various degrees of mobility. For example wireless network may enable a radio connection through a radio network access such as Global System for Mobile communication GSM General Packet Radio Services GPRS Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Bluetooth or the like. In essence wireless network may include virtually any wireless communication mechanism by which information may travel between client devices and another computing device network or the like.

Network is configured to couple CSS and its components with other computing devices including content server client device and through wireless network to client devices . Network is enabled to employ any form of computer readable media for communicating information from one electronic device to another. Also network can include the Internet in addition to local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs direct connections such as through a universal serial bus USB port other forms of computer readable media or any combination thereof. On an interconnected set of LANs including those based on differing architectures and protocols a router acts as a link between LANs enabling messages to be sent from one to another. Also communication links within LANs typically include twisted wire pair or coaxial cable while communication links between networks may utilize analog telephone lines full or fractional dedicated digital lines including T1 T2 T3 and T4 Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDNs Digital Subscriber Lines DSLs wireless links including satellite links or other communications links known to those skilled in the art. Furthermore remote computers and other related electronic devices could be remotely connected to either LANs or WANs via a modem and temporary telephone link. In essence network includes any communication method by which information may travel between computing devices.

Additionally communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave data signal or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The terms modulated data signal and carrier wave signal include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information instructions data or the like in the signal. By way of example communication media includes wired media such as twisted pair coaxial cable fiber optics wave guides and other wired media and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

One embodiment of cluster server is described in more detail below in conjunction with . Briefly however CSS may include any computing device capable of connecting to network to enable managing of messages within a social network. In one embodiment CSS may provide an interface to a user of client devices that may be used to post spread delete or otherwise manage distribution of messages including gossip messages.

CSS may further dynamically determine hop distances for respective messages enable rank ordering of messages for a client device and enable automatic deletion of a message based in part on hop distance. In one embodiment if a message is ignored by a message recipient for a defined time period the message may also be automatically deleted from a display of messages to the recipient.

CSS may in one embodiment provide to a client device a determined hop distance for display with a respective message. In one embodiment the hop distance may be configured to be dynamically updated in real time for the client device as the message is forwarded through a social network of users such as might be represented by client devices or the like. In one embodiment CSS might be configured to determine hop distance based on how a user of a client device responds to a received message. For example in one embodiment where a user receives a message and selects to forward the message to another client device the hop distance might be determined based on a longest sequence of client devices for which the message is forwarded. In one embodiment the hop distance displayed at a client device might be independent of whether the user forwarded the message or did not forward the message. That is in one embodiment the user might always see the hop distance to reflect the longest sequence even if that user is not within the longest sequence of users. In another embodiment if the user is not within the longest sequence the hop distance displayed for that user might reflect the length of the sequence of users for which that user is a member. However the displayed hop distance for a given user is not limited to these embodiments and any of a variety of other hop distances may be determined for display at a client device without limiting the scope of the invention.

As noted CSS may receive a selected portion of content that was dragged and dropped or otherwise indicated for sharing. CSS may pre process the selected portion for sharing. In one embodiment CSS may receive the selected portion copy the selected portion in a database create a hyperlink to the selected portion or the like. CSS may send the selected portion to at least one of client devices associated with members of a social network. In another embodiment CSS may send a hyperlink to the selected portion back to the originating client device requesting CSS to pre process the selected portion for sharing. In one embodiment the originating client device may share the hyperlink and or selected portion using a variety of techniques described above including a peer to peer sharing. CSS may employ a process substantially similar to the process described below in conjunction with to perform at least some of its actions.

It should be noted that while illustrates a use of CSS to manage messages based on hop distances and or shared selected portions of content the invention is not so limited. For example as noted above client devices may also be configured with a client application script plug in applet or the like that is configured and arranged to enable the client device to manage messages using hop distances. Moreover in another embodiment various functions performed by CSS may be distributed across a plurality of network devices.

Devices that may operate as CSS include personal computers desktop computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs servers or the like.

Content server includes virtually any network computing device that is configured to provide various resources including content and or services over network . As such content server represents one embodiment of a content system. Content server may provide access to any of a variety of content including but not limited to messages such as emails SMS messages IM messages search results news articles websites hyperlinks ads reviews as well as content that may include audio files video files text files streaming files graphical files or the like. Thus virtually any content may be available through content server for access by client devices . In one embodiment content server might be configured and arranged to provide a website for users to post view link to and or otherwise access content. Content server might also provide FTP services APIs web services database services or the like to enable users to access content. In addition content server may also provide a messaging service such as an email server text messaging server or the like. However content server is not limited to these mechanisms and or content and others are envisaged as well.

Content server may include an interface that may request information from a user of client devices . For example content server may provide access to an account which may request user log in information. Such log in information may include a user name password or other identifier of the user and or client device used by the user. Moreover content server may also be configured to manage information for a user such as an address book buddy list or other type of contact list. Such contact lists may be made available to CSS in one embodiment.

Devices that may operate as content server include but are not limited to personal computers desktop computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs servers network appliances and the like.

As shown in the figure mobile device includes a processing unit CPU in communication with a mass memory via a bus . Mobile device also includes a power supply one or more network interfaces an audio interface video interface a display a keypad an illuminator an input output interface a haptic interface and an optional global positioning systems GPS receiver . Power supply provides power to mobile device . A rechargeable or non rechargeable battery may be used to provide power. The power may also be provided by an external power source such as an AC adapter or a powered docking cradle that supplements and or recharges a battery.

Mobile device may optionally communicate with a base station not shown or directly with another computing device. Network interface includes circuitry for coupling mobile device to one or more networks and is constructed for use with one or more communication protocols and technologies including but not limited to global system for mobile communication GSM code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA user datagram protocol UDP transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP SMS general packet radio service GPRS WAP ultra wide band UWB IEEE 802.16 Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax SIP RTP Bluetooth infrared Wi Fi Zigbee or any of a variety of other wireless communication protocols. Network interface is sometimes known as a transceiver transceiving device or network interface card NIC .

Audio interface is arranged to produce and receive audio signals such as the sound of a human voice. For example audio interface may be coupled to a speaker and microphone not shown to enable telecommunication with others and or generate an audio acknowledgement for some action. Display may be a liquid crystal display LCD gas plasma light emitting diode LED or any other type of display used with a computing device. Display may also include a touch sensitive screen arranged to receive input from an object such as a stylus or a digit from a human hand.

Video interface is arranged to capture video images such as a still photo a video segment an infrared video or the like. For example video interface may be coupled to a digital video camera a web camera or the like. Video interface may comprise a lens an image sensor and other electronics. Image sensors may include a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS integrated circuit charge coupled device CCD or any other integrated circuit for sensing light.

Keypad may comprise any input device arranged to receive input from a user. For example keypad may include a push button numeric dial or a keyboard. Keypad may also include command buttons that are associated with selecting and sending images. Illuminator may provide a status indication and or provide light. Illuminator may remain active for specific periods of time or in response to events. For example when illuminator is active it may backlight the buttons on keypad and stay on while the client device is powered. Also illuminator may backlight these buttons in various patterns when particular actions are performed such as dialing another client device. Illuminator may also cause light sources positioned within a transparent or translucent case of the client device to illuminate in response to actions.

Mobile device also comprises input output interface for communicating with external devices such as a headset or other input or output devices not shown in . Input output interface can utilize one or more communication technologies such as USB infrared Bluetooth Wi Fi Zigbee or the like. Haptic interface is arranged to provide tactile feedback to a user of the client device. For example the haptic interface may be employed to vibrate mobile device in a particular way when another user of a computing device is calling.

Optional GPS transceiver can determine the physical coordinates of mobile device on the surface of the Earth which typically outputs a location as latitude and longitude values. GPS transceiver can also employ other geo positioning mechanisms including but not limited to triangulation assisted GPS AGPS E OTD CI SAI ETA BSS or the like to further determine the physical location of mobile device on the surface of the Earth. It is understood that under different conditions GPS transceiver can determine a physical location within millimeters for mobile device and in other cases the determined physical location may be less precise such as within a meter or significantly greater distances. In one embodiment however a client device may through other components provide other information that may be employed to determine a physical location of the device including for example a MAC address IP address or the like.

Mass memory includes a RAM a ROM and other storage means. Mass memory illustrates another example of computer storage media for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Mass memory stores a basic input output system BIOS for controlling low level operation of mobile device . The mass memory also stores an operating system for controlling the operation of mobile device . It will be appreciated that this component may include a general purpose operating system such as a version of UNIX or LINUX or a specialized client communication operating system such as Windows Mobile or the Symbian operating system. The operating system may include or interface with a Java virtual machine module that enables control of hardware components and or operating system operations via Java application programs.

Memory further includes one or more data storage which can be utilized by mobile device to store among other things applications and or other data. For example data storage may also be employed to store information that describes various capabilities of mobile device . The information may then be provided to another device based on any of a variety of events including being sent as part of a header during a communication sent upon request or the like. Moreover data storage may also be employed to store personal information including but not limited to address lists contact lists personal preferences or the like. Data storage may also include some profile information. At least a portion of the information may also be stored on a disk drive or other storage medium not shown within mobile device .

Applications may include computer executable instructions which when executed by mobile device transmit receive and or otherwise process messages e.g. SMS MMS IM email and or other messages multimedia information and enable telecommunication with another user of another client device. Other examples of application programs include calendars browsers email clients IM applications SMS applications VoIP applications contact managers task managers transcoders database programs word processing programs security applications spreadsheet programs games search programs and so forth. Applications may also include content sharing messenger CSM . In one embodiment CSM may be an application configured to receive a drag and drop of content of a plurality of types. CSM may provide at least one window sharing area. In one embodiment CSM may enable the sharing area s as a stand alone window s as part of a browser application a messenger application or any other application.

Embodiments of interfaces useable on mobile device for managing messages are described in more detail below in conjunction with B and C. Briefly CSM may include a sharing area and or a display list component for displaying a plurality of items wherein at least one of the items is a shared portion of content and a co located hop distance that is updated in real time for each sharing of the portion between at least two members of a social network. CSM may also include a message display component for displaying the shared portion and or a project component configured to organize the shared portion into at least one project and transmit receive over the network interface s the shared portion with another device enabling another sharing area wherein the other sharing area is associated with or otherwise has subscribed to at least one of the projects.

In one embodiment CSM may include a browser application with a downloadable plug in script applet or the like that is configured and arranged to manage messages using hop distances. CSM may include a browser application configured to receive and display graphics text multimedia and the like employing virtually any web based language. In one embodiment the browser application is enabled to employ Handheld Device Markup Language HDML Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript Standard Generalized Markup Language SMGL HyperText Markup Language HTML eXtensible Markup Language XML and the like to display and send a message. However any of a variety of other web based languages may be employed.

CSM may further be configured as a messenger application that is configured to send to receive and or to otherwise process messages using SMS MMS IM email VoIP and or any of a variety of other messaging communication protocols. Although a single CSM is illustrated it should be clear that multiple applications may be employed. For example one CSM may be configured to manage SMS messages where another application may manage IM messages and yet another messaging client is configured to manage emails or the like with one or more of such applications being able to manage messages using hop distances.

In one embodiment CSM may be configured and arranged to manage forwarding of a sharing message. In one embodiment CSM may be configured to receive a drag and drop of a selection of at least a portion of web content. The drag and drop may be received via an Object Linking and Embedding OLE interface or any other copying mechanism of an operating system. In any case the selected portion is dragged and dropped onto a sharing area to indicate visually that the selected portion is to be shared. CSM may pre process the selection of the portion for sharing. In one embodiment CSM may send the selected portion over network interface s to a server for further preparation. In one embodiment based on the type of the selected portion CSM may receive a hyperlink to a copy of the selected portion. In another embodiment CSM may pre process the selected content locally for example by copying the selected portion into memory or the like. CSM may host e.g. through a web server a copy of the selected portion and may send a hyperlink to the selected portion with a sharing message.

In any case CSM might automatically determine a list of recipients to whom the sharing message is to be forwarded. In one embodiment CSM might employ a contact list or the like to make such a determination. CSM may send the sharing message to at least another client device. In one embodiment CSM may send the sharing message to a server over network interface s for further sharing may send the sharing message directly to other client devices over network interface s or the like.

Network device includes processing unit video display adapter and a mass memory all in communication with each other via bus . The mass memory generally includes RAM ROM and one or more permanent mass storage devices such as hard disk drive tape drive optical drive and or floppy disk drive. The mass memory stores operating system for controlling the operation of network device . Any general purpose operating system may be employed. Basic input output system BIOS is also provided for controlling the low level operation of network device . As illustrated in network device also can communicate with the Internet or some other communications network via network interface unit which is constructed for use with various communication protocols including the TCP IP protocol. Network interface unit is sometimes known as a transceiver transceiving device or network interface card NIC .

The mass memory as described above illustrates another type of computer readable media namely computer storage media. Computer storage media may include volatile nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Examples of computer storage media include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computing device.

The mass memory also stores program code and data. One or more applications are loaded into mass memory and run on operating system . Examples of application programs may include transcoders schedulers calendars database programs word processing programs HTTP programs customizable user interface programs IPSec applications encryption programs security programs VPN programs web servers account management and so forth. Applications may include Sharing Manager SM and message server .

Message server may include virtually any computing component or components configured and arranged to forward messages from message user agents and or other message servers or to deliver messages to a local message store such as data store or the like. Thus message server may include a message transfer manager to communicate a message employing any of a variety of email protocols including but not limited to Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP Post Office Protocol POP Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP NNTP or the like.

However message server is not constrained to email messages and other messaging protocols may also be managed by one or more components of message server . Thus message server may also be configured to manage SMS messages IM MMS IRC mIRC or any of a variety of other message types. Moreover message server may also represent a web server configured to enable access to and or management of messages.

In one embodiment message server may receive a selected portion of content e.g. web content over network interface unit to be pre processed for sharing. The selected portion may be indicated to be shared with at least one member of a social network e.g. from a content list of a user or the like . The selected portion may be indicated as dragged and dropped onto a sharing area and to be shared with the at least one member. In one embodiment message server may determine a type of the selected portion. Based on a type of the selected portion a copy of the selected portion may be stored on for example data store e.g. in a sharing database . Message server may provide a hyperlink such as a URL or the like to the stored selected portion. In one embodiment the hyperlink and or the selected portion itself may be shared with client devices associated with members of the social network over network interface unit .

In one embodiment message server may communicate with SM to enable a user to manage messages using hop distances. In one embodiment SM may provide a script applet application or other downloadable component to a client device for use in managing messages using hop distances. In another embodiment SM may provide information to message server including an interface or the like for use in displaying and or otherwise managing messages. Although not illustrated in one embodiment SM may be configured as a plug in or the like to message server . In another embodiment the hop distance information may be sent to client devices based on a pull of information. For example client devices may request the selected portion and or associated hop distance over network interface unit . SM may provide the interface based on the request. In another embodiment each client device indicated as actively receiving the selected portion and or the hop distance may be sent an update of the hop distance e.g. in real time .

In one embodiment message server may be configured and arranged to receive a message. In one embodiment the message may be associated with hop distance information. SM may receive the hop distance information and or otherwise determine in real time a hop distance for the message based on the received information. The determined hop distance may then be provided to message server for providing with the message. In one embodiment the hop distance might not be provided until for example the user performs some defined action such as reading the message forwarding the message or the like. In one embodiment the hop distance determined based on a number of hops the message traversed to the given user might be provided with the message but the hop distance might not be updated if other recipients select to forward the message until for example the given user selects to also forward the message. In one embodiment the message may be displayed to the user in a rank ordering of messages based on message hop distances.

The operation of certain aspects of the invention will now be described with respect to . provide logical flow diagrams of certain aspects of the present invention. The processes of may be implemented for example within client devices and or CSS of .

At block a drag and drop of the selection of a portion of content is received at a sharing area. In one embodiment the portion may comprise a Uniformed Resource Locator URL and an offset indicating the portion within a web page identified by the URL. In one embodiment the portion may comprise an HTML fragment. In one embodiment the selection may be selected with a mouse click dragged and then unselected dropped into the sharing area or the like. In one embodiment a message configured to share the portion of the content is anonymized. In one embodiment information identifying an originating sharing member may be removed from a message configured to share the portion of the content.

At block a sharing message is pre processed for sharing the portion. In one embodiment preparation of the selected portion may be based on the type of the selected portion. The selected portion may be sent within the sharing message and or stored on a server and a hyperlink to the stored portion may be sent with the sharing message. Process of shows one process for performing block .

At block sharing of at least the portion of the content between an originating sharing member and a plurality of members of a social network is enabled. In one embodiment the social network may include some or even all contacts in a contact list for a user originating the shared portion i.e. an originating sharing member. In one embodiment the contact list may be the list of Instant Messaging IM users to which the originating sharing member has access. In one embodiment meta data associated with the shared portion may also be sent. For example the author date time to live or the like may be sent with the shared portion. In one embodiment the portion may be stored on a server and or client device before being sent. In one embodiment a hyperlink to the stored portion may be sent in the sharing message. In another embodiment the selected portion may be sent within the sharing message. In one embodiment the portion may be shared a plurality of times beginning with the originating sharing member and or between a plurality of members of the social network. In an alternate embodiment at block instead of sharing a plurality of selections of portions one at a time a plurality of selections may be shared collectively with each other e.g. within the same communication by the originating sharing member.

At block a hop distance for the shared portion is determined. In one embodiment the hop distance may be determined in real time for the message. In one embodiment the hop distance may be determined based on a count of each request received to forward the message. Thus if the message was requested to be forwarded to the user by a previous user the hop distance might be initially at least one. When the present user requests that the message be forwarded independent of the number of potential recipients the message is to be forwarded to the updated hop distance would increase by one and so forth. In another embodiment the hop distance may be updated as the message is received by a recipient as the message is sent or any of a variety of timing points in the process of sending receiving the message. In one embodiment an update of the hop distance may be based in part on a number of client devices in a sequence of client devices for which the sharing message is forwarded beyond a client device receiving the sharing message from an originating sharing member wherein the update of the hop distance indicates an updated level of interest in the portion. In one embodiment the hop distance may comprise at least two of a topological distance within the social network between members receiving the shared portion a number of network links between a plurality of client devices receiving the shared portion a number of times the portion is shared over the network or any combination thereof.

In addition an interface at the recipient s client device may be configured to display the message based on the hop distance. For example illustrates an example interface useable for managing a drag and drop of a selection of content. Shown in are message lists with a plurality of messages each message having an associated hop distance such as the hop distance shown for item . In one embodiment the messages may be displayed in a rank ordering based on the hop distances. In another embodiment the hop distances may be displayed with the messages however in yet another embodiment the hop distance may be hidden. In one embodiment determination and or use of the hop distance may be optional.

At block the shared portion may be displayed. In one embodiment the hop distance may be displayed co located with the shared portion e.g. as simply a number a spreadsheet a chart a graph or the like. In one embodiment if the shared portion refers to a fragment of a web page e.g. text multimedia object hyperlink or the like the actual content associated with the portion may be retrieved and displayed. For example if the shared portion refers to an image the image may be retrieved e.g. using HTTP and displayed in a sharing area as shown in sharing area of .

Processing flows next to decision block where a determination is made whether more message activity is to be managed. Such might arise for example as a message is forwarded through the social network new messages are created and sent or the like. If there is more activity processing loops back to block otherwise processing returns to a calling process to perform other actions.

At block the text object is pre processed for sharing. In one embodiment the text may be copied into the sharing area. In one embodiment the user may take an action such as click Share to share the content. In another embodiment the content may be configured to automatically be shared. In one embodiment the text may be saved in a sharing database on the client device and or sent to and saved on another device. The saved text may be further shared tracked or further processed.

At decision block it is determined if the selection is of a hyperlink object. If the selection is of a hyperlink object processing continues to block . Otherwise processing continues to decision block .

At block the hyperlink is pre processed for sharing. In one embodiment the hyperlink and or text of the hyperlink may be copied into the sharing area. In one embodiment the hyperlink object may be a URL to another web page an applet an Embeddable Media Object or the like. In one embodiment the user may take an action such as click Share to share the content. In another embodiment the content may be configured to automatically be shared. In one embodiment the hyperlink and or text may be saved in the sharing database on the client device and or sent to and saved on another device. The saved hyperlink and or text may be further shared tracked or further processed.

At decision block it is determined if the selection is of a multimedia object. If the selection is of a multimedia object processing continues to block . Otherwise processing returns to a calling process for further processing.

At block the multimedia is pre processed for sharing. In one embodiment the multimedia may be copied or otherwise sent to the sharing database e.g. on a server device for reuse. The multimedia object may comprise an image object an audio track object a video object or the like. In one embodiment a hyperlink independent of the originally selected multimedia may be created. The hyperlink may be a URL to the server device. Referring to sharing area interface of the hyperlink and or text of the hyperlink may be copied into for example lists of the sharing area. In one embodiment the user may take an action such as click Share to share the content. In another embodiment the content may be configured to automatically be shared. In one embodiment the hyperlink and or text may be saved in the sharing database on the client device and or sent to and saved on another device e.g. on a server device . The saved hyperlink and or text may be further shared tracked or further processed. In one embodiment if the user does not take an action such as sharing the content e.g. after a timeout the multimedia in the database and or the hyperlink may be deleted from the database. Processing returns to a calling process for further processing.

It will be understood that each block of a flowchart illustration need not be limited in the ordering shown in the illustration and might be performed in any ordering or even performed concurrently without departing from the spirit of the invention. It will also be understood that each block of the flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustration can be implemented by computer program instructions. These program instructions might be provided to a processor to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute on the processor create means for implementing the actions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions might be executed by a processor to cause a series of operational steps to be performed by the processor to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the processor to provide steps for implementing the actions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

Accordingly blocks of the flowchart illustration support combinations of means for performing the specified actions combinations of steps for performing the specified actions and program instruction means for performing the specified actions. It will also be understood that each block of the flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems which perform the specified actions or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Other aspects of the invention will now be described with respect to A B and C. illustrates an example interface useable for sharing content using a drag and drop interface. Sharing area interface is but one of a variety of sharing areas and therefore is not to be construed as limiting the invention. As illustrated sharing area interface includes project buttons message display a user s shared content list and a content list of content from others. While one project at a time is shown in sharing area interface within lists the interface may be provided in any other fashion without departing from the scope of the invention. For example the project s my be organized as folders files or the like.

Project buttons may show the current project allow switching between projects creating new projects or the like. As shown the current project is determined by project button e.g. The Gold Rush Project . Although not shown if a user creates a new project pushing for example project button the user may be prompted to enter a project name and or share the project with at least one other user e.g. member of the social network . The other user s own sharing area interface may then display a project button for sharing items in the newly created project. In one embodiment the other user may select to subscribe or not subscribe to the project.

Buttons represent virtually any mechanism useable to select an action to be performed on a message including but not limited to sharing and or forwarding editing deleting or reading content. As shown selected content includes an item that was dragged and dropped by the user of the sharing area onto sharing area. As shown the selected content is associated with 20 hop distance. In one embodiment this represents that the selected content has been shared 20 times with members of the social network. Other items and associated hop distances of the user s shared content and content shared by others are also shown in lists and respectively.

Message display may represent any mechanism useable to read and or edit and or compose a message. As shown message display shows the content for selected content . In general message display may display a plurality of types of content including text content multimedia content e.g. images sound video or the like. In one embodiment message display may retrieve the multimedia content over a network using for example HTTP.

In one embodiment sharing area may be provided through a component downloaded onto a client device such as client devices . In another embodiment sharing area might be displayed within a browser window from a remote network device or the like. Thus sharing area may be accessible from a client device using a variety of mechanisms including but not limited to a combination of a client component and a remote network device.

In the example shown if a user finds an interesting portion of content for their project the user may use sharing interface to drag and drop the portion into their project. The sharing interface may be a stand alone component part of an instant messaging component or another application. The portion may be saved and converted or otherwise pre processed for sharing. The portion may be shared to the user s social networks within for example one degree of separation. For example the portion may be shared with the users friends within the buddy list of an instant messaging application. These friends may be friends who had also previously subscribed to the project.

The friends will be able to view the shared portion s items as for example Content from others . The friends can then pass those items of interest on to their friends e.g. members at a second degree of separation from the originating member .

Hop distance may be tracked for the shared portion s and recorded in at least one user s sharing interface. For example an image of a chart of the price of gold may be collected by one student user sent to the rest of the class and passed on until most of the students in a school have the image. The originating student user will see for example in sharing area interface that one image was passed along 20 times hops e.g. using the hop distance while another image was passed along twice. The user may be able to determine that the 20 hop image is more popular or more relevant than other shared portions that the user shared.

Sharing areas may be stand alone windows as shown in . However in other embodiments sharing areas may be part of a messenger window as shown in or even part of web browser as shown in .

The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the invention. Since many embodiments of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention the invention resides in the claims hereinafter.

