---

title: Returning a personalized advertisement
abstract: Provided embodiments include a device, apparatus, system, computer program product, and method. A provided method includes receiving from a requestor device a marketing impact information indicative of a physiological response by a person to a general advertisement. The method also includes acquiring an indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement. The method further includes initiating a selection of a targeted-advertisement by an advertising rule responsive to at least the characteristic of the general advertisement and the marketing impact information. The method also includes returning an indication of the targeted-advertisement. The method may include analyzing the marketing impact information for an indication of a reaction by the person to the general advertisement.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09582805&OS=09582805&RS=09582805
owner: Invention Science Fund I, LLC
number: 09582805
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071211
---
The present application is related to and claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Related Applications e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 USC 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Application s .

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 977 752 entitled METHOD OF SELECTING A SECOND CONTENT BASED ON A USER S REACTION TO A FIRST CONTENT naming EDWARD K. Y. JUNG ROYCE A. LEVIEN ROBERT W. LORD MARK A. MALAMUD JOHN D. RINALDO JR. as inventors filed 24 Oct. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 977 748 entitled REQUESTING A SECOND CONTENT BASED ON A USER S REACTION TO A FIRST CONTENT naming EDWARD K. Y. JUNG ROYCE A. LEVIEN ROBERT W. LORD MARK A. MALAMUD JOHN D. RINALDO JR. as inventors filed 25 Oct. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 978 206 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 312 407 B2 entitled SELECTING A SECOND CONTENT BASED ON A USER S REACTION TO A FIRST CONTENT naming EDWARD K. Y. JUNG ROYCE A. LEVIEN ROBERT W. LORD MARK A. MALAMUD JOHN D. RINALDO JR. as inventors filed 26 Oct. 2007.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 978 534 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 126 867 B2 entitled RETURNING A SECOND CONTENT BASED ON A USER S REACTION TO A FIRST CONTENT naming EDWARD K. Y. JUNG ROYCE A. LEVIEN ROBERT W. LORD MARK A. MALAMUD JOHN D. RINALDO JR. as inventors filed 27 Oct. 2007.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 980 321 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 234 262 B2 entitled METHOD OF SELECTING A SECOND CONTENT BASED ON A USER S REACTION TO A FIRST CONTENT OF AT LEAST TWO INSTANCES OF DISPLAYED CONTENT naming EDWARD K. Y. JUNG ROYCE A. LEVIEN ROBERT W. LORD MARK A. MALAMUD JOHN D. RINALDO JR. as inventors filed 29 Oct. 2007.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 981 573 entitled SELECTING A SECOND CONTENT BASED ON A USER S REACTION TO A FIRST CONTENT OF AT LEAST TWO INSTANCES OF DISPLAYED CONTENT naming EDWARD K. Y. JUNG ROYCE A. LEVIEN ROBERT W. LORD MARK A. MALAMUD JOHN D. RINALDO JR. as inventors filed 30 Oct. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 983 406 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 001 108 B2 entitled RETURNING A NEW CONTENT BASED ON A PERSON S REACTION TO AL LEAST TWO INSTANCES OF PREVIOUSLY DISPLAYED CONTENT naming EDWARD K. Y. JUNG ROYCE A. LEVIEN ROBERT W. LORD MARK A. MALAMUD JOHN D. RINALDO JR. as inventors filed 7 Nov. 2007.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 998 820 entitled TARGETED ADVERTISING BASED ON A SENSED PHYSIOLOGICAL RESPONSE BY A PERSON TO A GENERAL ADVERTISEMENT naming EDWARD K. Y. JUNG ROYCE A. LEVIEN ROBERT W. LORD MARK A. MALAMUD JOHN D. RINALDO JR. as inventors filed 30 Nov. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 998 826 entitled PHYSIOLOGICAL RESPONSE BASED TARGETED ADVERTISING naming EDWARD K. Y. JUNG ROYCE A. LEVIEN ROBERT W. LORD MARK A. MALAMUD JOHN D. RINALDO JR. as inventors filed 30 Nov. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 998 779 entitled PROVIDING PERSONALIZED ADVERTISING naming EDWARD K. Y. JUNG ROYCE A. LEVIEN ROBERT W. LORD MARK A. MALAMUD JOHN D. RINALDO JR. as inventors filed 30 Nov. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

The United States Patent Office USPTO has published a notice to the effect that the USPTO s computer programs require that patent applicants reference both a serial number and indicate whether an application is a continuation or continuation in part. Stephen G. Kunin Benefit of Prior Filed Application USPTO Official Gazette Mar. 18 2003 available at http www.uspto.gov web offices com so1 og 2003 week11 patbene.htm. The present Applicant Entity hereinafter Applicant has provided above a specific reference to the application s from which priority is being claimed as recited by statute. Applicant understands that the statute is unambiguous in its specific reference language and does not require either a serial number or any characterization such as continuation or continuation in part for claiming priority to U.S. patent applications. Notwithstanding the foregoing Applicant understands that the USPTO s computer programs have certain data entry requirements and hence Applicant is designating the present application as a continuation in part of its parent applications as set forth above but expressly points out that such designations are not to be construed in any way as any type of commentary and or admission as to whether or not the present application contains any new matter in addition to the matter of its parent application s .

All subject matter of the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Applications is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

An embodiment provides method implemented in an environment that includes a person viewing content displayed by an electronic device. The method includes generating a marketing impact information indicative of a physiological response by a person to an electronically displayed general advertisement. The method also includes acquiring an indication of a characteristic of the electronically displayed general advertisement. The method further includes initiating a selection of a targeted advertisement using an advertising rule responsive to at least the characteristic of the electronically displayed general advertisement and the marketing impact information. The method may include electronically displaying the general advertisement in a manner perceivable by the person. The method may include receiving the targeted advertisement. The method may include saving an indication of the targeted advertisement. The method may include electronically displaying the selected targeted advertisement. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides an electronic system. The electronic system includes a response sensor apparatus operable to acquire data indicative of a physiological response by a person to an advertisement. The system also includes a recognition circuit operable to generate a marketing impact information about the general advertisement based at least in part on the acquired data indicative of a physiological response. The system further includes a query circuit operable to initiate a selection of a targeted advertisement by a targeted advertising selection engine responsive to at least a characteristic of the general advertisement and the marketing impact information. The system also includes an electronic display circuit operable to present the targeted advertisement in a manner perceivable by a person. The system may include a digital storage device operable to save an indication of the selected targeted advertisement. The system may include an advertising broadcast circuit operable to facilitate a display of the selected targeted advertisement by the electronic display. The system may include a receiver circuit operable to receive an indication of the selected targeted advertisement. In addition to the foregoing other system embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides a computer program product. The computer program product includes a computer readable storage medium bearing program instructions. The program instructions are operable to perform a process in a computing device. The process includes generating a marketing impact information indicative of a physiological response by a person to an electronically displayed general advertisement. The process also includes acquiring an indication of a characteristic of the electronically displayed general advertisement. The process further includes initiating a selection of a targeted advertisement using an advertising rule responsive to at least the characteristic of the electronically displayed general advertisement and the marketing impact information. The process may include initiating an electronic display of the general advertisement. The process may include receiving an indication of the targeted advertisement. The process may include saving an indication of the targeted advertisement. In addition to the foregoing other computer program embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides an electronic device. The electronic device includes means for generating a marketing impact information indicative of a physiological response by a person to an electronically displayed general advertisement. The electronic device also includes means for acquiring an indication of a characteristic of the electronically displayed general advertisement. The electronic device further includes means for initiating a selection of a targeted advertisement using an advertising rule responsive to at least the characteristic of the electronically displayed general advertisement and the marketing impact information. The electronic device may include means for electronically displaying the general advertisement in a manner perceivable by the person. The electronic device may include means for receiving the targeted advertisement. The electronic device may include means for saving an indication of the targeted advertisement. In addition to the foregoing other electronic device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a method. The method includes generating a marketing impact information indicative of a physiological response by a person to an electronically displayed general advertisement. The method also includes sending the marketing impact information to an advertising selector server. The method further includes receiving an indication of a targeted advertisement chosen using an advertising rule responsive to at least a characteristic of the electronically displayed general advertisement and the marketing impact information. The method also includes facilitating an electronic display of the targeted advertisement. The method may include electronically displaying the targeted advertisement. The method may include saving the indication of a targeted advertisement. The method may include determining a characteristic of the electronically displayed general advertisement. The method may include receiving the selected targeted advertisement. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides an electronic system. The electronic system includes a sensor apparatus operable to acquire data indicative of a physiological response by a person to a general advertisement. The electronic system also includes a recognition circuit operable to generate a marketing impact information about the general advertisement based at least in part on the acquired data indicative of a physiological response by the person to the general advertisement. The electronic system further includes a caller circuit operable to send a request for a targeted advertisement. The electronic system also includes a receiver circuit operable to receive an indication of a targeted advertisement selected from at least two instances of available marketing content by a selection engine responsive at least to a characteristic of the general advertisement and the marketing impact information. The electronic system further includes an electronic display circuit operable to present the targeted advertisement in a manner perceivable by the person. The electronic system may include a characterization circuit operable to acquire an indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement. The electronic system may include a characterization circuit operable to at least one of receive or determine an indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement. The electronic system may include a digital storage device operable to save an indication of the selected targeted advertisement. The electronic system may include an advertising broadcast circuit operable to facilitate a display of the selected targeted advertisement by the electronic display circuit. In addition to the foregoing other electronic system embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a computer program product. The computer program product includes a computer readable storage medium bearing program instructions. The program instructions are operable to perform a process in a computing device. The process includes generating a marketing impact information indicative of a physiological response by a person to an electronically displayed general advertisement and based at least in part on data produced by a sensor coupled to a person. The process also includes sending the marketing impact information to an advertising selector server. The process further includes receiving an indication of a targeted advertisement chosen using an advertising rule responsive to at least a characteristic of the electronically displayed general advertisement and the marketing impact information. The process also includes facilitating an electronic display of the targeted advertisement. The process may include facilitating an electronic display of the general advertisement. The process may include saving an indication of the targeted advertisement. In addition to the foregoing other computer program product embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides an electronic device. The electronic device includes means for generating a marketing impact information indicative of a physiological response by a person to an electronically displayed general advertisement and based at least in part on data produced by a sensor coupled to a person. The electronic device also includes means for sending the marketing impact information to an advertising selector server. The electronic device further includes means for receiving an indication of a targeted advertisement chosen using an advertising rule responsive to at least a characteristic of the electronically displayed general advertisement and the marketing impact information. The electronic device also includes means for facilitating an electronic display of the targeted advertisement. The electronic device may include means for electronically displaying the targeted advertisement. The electronic device may include means for saving the indication of a targeted advertisement. The electronic device may include means for determining a characteristic of the electronically displayed general advertisement. The electronic device may include means for receiving the indication of a targeted advertisement. In addition to the foregoing other electronic device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides a method. The method includes receiving from a requester device a marketing impact information indicative of a physiological response by a person to a general advertisement. The method also includes acquiring an indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement. The method further includes initiating a selection of a targeted advertisement using an advertising rule responsive to at least the characteristic of the general advertisement and the marketing impact information. The method also includes returning an indication of the targeted advertisement. The method may analyzing the marketing impact information for an indication of a reaction by the person to the general advertisement. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides an electronic device. The electronic device includes an advertising services circuit operable to receive from a requestor device a marketing impact information indicative of a physiological response by a person to a general advertisement. The electronic device also includes an attribute circuit operable to obtain an indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement. The electronic device further includes a targeted advertising selection engine operable to pick a targeted advertisement based on at least the indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement and the marketing impact information. The electronic device also includes a reply circuit operable to return an indication of the targeted advertisement. The electronic device may include a storage device operable to save data indicative of the targeted advertisement. The electronic device may include an advertising services circuit operable to receive from a requester device a marketing impact information based at least in part on data produced by a sensor coupled to the person and indicative of a physiological response by a person to a general advertisement. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a computer program product. The computer program product includes a computer readable storage medium bearing program instructions and the program instructions. The program instructions are operable to perform a process in a computing device. The process includes receiving from a requestor device a marketing impact information indicative of a physiological response by a person to a general advertisement. The process also includes acquiring an indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement. The process further includes initiating a selection of a targeted advertisement using an advertising rule responsive to at least the characteristic of the general advertisement and the marketing impact information. The process also includes returning an indication of the targeted advertisement. In addition to the foregoing other computer program product embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides an electronic device. The electronic device includes means for receiving from a requestor device a marketing impact information indicative of a physiological response by a person to a general advertisement. The electronic device also includes means for acquiring an indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement. The electronic device further includes means for initiating a selection of a targeted advertisement using an advertising rule responsive to at least the characteristic of the general advertisement and the marketing impact information. The electronic device also includes means for returning an indication of the targeted advertisement. In addition to the foregoing other electronic device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a method. The method includes receiving from a requestor device a marketing impact information indicative of a physiological response by a person to a general advertisement. The method also includes acquiring an indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement. The method further includes initiating a selection of a targeted advertisement by an advertising rule responsive to at least the characteristic of the general advertisement and the marketing impact information. The method also includes returning an indication of the targeted advertisement. The method may include analyzing the marketing impact information for an indication of a reaction by the person to the general advertisement. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides an electronic device. The electronic device includes an advertising services circuit an attribute circuit a targeted advertising selection engine and a reply circuit. The advertising circuit includes an advertising services circuit operable to receive from a requestor device a marketing impact information indicative of a physiological response by a person to a general advertisement. The attribute circuit includes an attribute circuit operable to obtain an indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement. The targeted advertising selection engine includes a targeted advertising selection engine operable to pick a targeted advertisement based on at least the indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement and the marketing impact information. The reply circuit includes a reply circuit operable to return an indication of the targeted advertisement. The electronic device may include a digital storage device operable to save data indicative of the targeted advertisement. In addition to the foregoing other electronic device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides a computer program product. The computer program product includes a computer readable storage medium bearing program instructions. The program instructions are operable to perform a process in a computing device. The process includes receiving from a requestor device a marketing impact information indicative of a physiological response by a person to a general advertisement. The process also includes acquiring an indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement. The process further includes initiating a selection of a targeted advertisement by an advertising rule responsive to at least the characteristic of the general advertisement and the marketing impact information. The process also includes returning an indication of the targeted advertisement. The process may further include transforming the marketing impact information to include an indication of a reaction by the person to the general advertisement. In addition to the foregoing other computer program product embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides an electronic device. The electronic device includes means for receiving from a requester device a marketing impact information indicative of a physiological response by a person to a general advertisement. The electronic device also includes means for acquiring an indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement. The electronic device further includes means for initiating a selection of a targeted advertisement by an advertising rule responsive to at least the characteristic of the general advertisement and the marketing impact information. The electronic device also includes means for returning an indication of the targeted advertisement. In addition to the foregoing other electronic device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrated embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a number of switches and buttons illustrated as hardware buttons connected to the system via a suitable interface . Input devices may further include a touch sensitive display with suitable input detection circuitry illustrated as a display and screen input detector . The output circuitry of the touch sensitive display is connected to the system bus via a video driver . Other input devices may include a microphone connected through a suitable audio interface and a physical hardware keyboard not shown . Output devices may include at least one the display or a projector display .

In addition to the display the computing device may include other peripheral output devices such as at least one speaker . Other external input or output devices such as a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like may be connected to the processing unit through a USB port and USB port interface to the system bus . Alternatively the other external input and output devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or other port. The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting to a flash card memory not shown through an appropriate connection port not shown . The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting with a network through a network port and network interface and through wireless port and corresponding wireless interface may be provided to facilitate communication with other peripheral devices including other computers printers and so on not shown . It will be appreciated that the various components and connections shown are exemplary and other components and means of establishing communications links may be used.

The computing device may be primarily designed to include a user interface. The user interface may include a character a key based and or another user data input via the touch sensitive display . The user interface may include using a stylus not shown . Moreover the user interface is not limited to an actual touch sensitive panel arranged for directly receiving input but may alternatively or in addition respond to another input device such as the microphone . For example spoken words may be received at the microphone and recognized. Alternatively the computing device may be designed to include a user interface having a physical keyboard not shown .

The device functional elements are typically application specific and related to a function of the electronic device and is coupled with the system bus through an interface not shown . The functional elements may typically perform a single well defined task with little or no user configuration or setup such as a refrigerator keeping food cold a cell phone connecting with an appropriate tower and transceiving voice or data information and a camera capturing and saving an image.

The computing system environment typically includes a variety of computer readable media products. Computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not of limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media and communications media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . In a further embodiment a computer storage media may include a group of computer storage media devices. In another embodiment a computer storage media may include an information store. In another embodiment an information store may include a quantum memory a photonic quantum memory and or atomic quantum memory. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Communications media may typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media include wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF optical and infrared media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A RAM may include at least one of a DRAM an EDO DRAM a SDRAM a RDRAM a VRAM and or a DDR DRAM. A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Often the operating system offers services to applications programs by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown . Because the operating system incorporates these services developers of applications programs need not redevelop code to use the services. Examples of APIs provided by operating systems such as Microsoft s WINDOWS are well known in the art.

The computing device may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media products. By way of example only illustrates a non removable non volatile memory interface hard disk interface that reads from and writes for example to non removable non volatile magnetic media. also illustrates a removable non volatile memory interface that for example is coupled to a magnetic disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk and or is coupled to an optical disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM. Other removable nonremovable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes memory cards flash memory cards DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as the interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from the operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a microphone keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include at least one of a touch sensitive display joystick game pad satellite dish and scanner. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB .

A display such as a monitor or other type of display device or surface may be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . A projector display engine that includes a projecting element may be coupled to the system bus. In addition to the display the computing device may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system environment may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The network logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN and may also include other networks such as a personal area network PAN not shown . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a networking environment the computing system environment is connected to the network through a network interface such as the network interface the modem and or the wireless interface . The network may include a LAN network environment and or a WAN network environment such as the Internet. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on computer storage medium . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing communications link between the computers may be used.

The electronic device may include a wired or wireless access to digital content using the transceiver such as via a network . In an alternative embodiment the electronic device may be coupled to the network via a wireless link a satellite link and or a wired link.

In an embodiment the electronic device includes a reaction detector circuit an analytic circuit a query circuit and a display circuit . In some embodiments one or more of the reaction detector circuit the analytic determining circuit the query circuit and or the display circuit may be structurally distinct from the remaining circuits. In an embodiment the electronic device or a portion of the electronic device may be implemented in whole or in part using the thin computing device described in conjunction with and or the computing device described in conjunction with . In another embodiment the electronic device or a portion of the electronic device may be implemented using Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. In a further embodiment one or more of the circuits and or the machine may be implemented in hardware software and or firmware. The person may input commands and information to the electronic device using the user direct input device .

The electronic device may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include additional circuits . In addition the electronic device may include a processor not illustrated such as the processing unit described in conjunction with and or the processor described in conjunction with . In further addition the electronic device may include a computer storage media illustrated as a data store. In an embodiment the electronic device may include a mobile electronic device.

In an embodiment the reaction detector circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include at least one of a reaction circuit reaction evaluation circuit a gaze reaction circuit a response sensor circuit a physical reaction circuit an emotional reaction circuit a direct sensor circuit a reaction state circuit a content characteristic circuit and or a device type detector circuit .

In another embodiment the analytic circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include at least one of a multiple attribute determining circuit and or an attribute determining circuit.

In a further embodiment the query circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include at least one of a local data store search circuit a search engine facilitating circuit a mitigation instruction circuit a Web search facilitating circuit an algorithm search facilitating circuit and or a multiple target search facilitating circuit .

After a start operation implemented in the environment that includes a person viewing content displayed by an electronic device using a user direct input device the operational flow includes an observation operation . The observation operation detects a reaction by the person to a displayed first content. The observation operation may be implemented using the reaction detector circuit and or the response sensing apparatus . An analytical operation determines a content attribute of the displayed first content. The analytical operation may be implemented using the analytic circuit . A query operation facilitates a search for a second content based on the detected reaction by the observation operation and on the determined content attribute by the investigation operation. The query operation may be implemented using the query circuit . A broadcast operation displays the second content in a manner perceivable by the person. The broadcast operation may be implemented using the display circuit . The operational flow then proceeds to an end operation.

In an embodiment the observation operation may be implemented using the reaction detector circuit of . For example optically based observation data of the person may be acquired by the sensor A and or sensor B. Physiological based data of the person may be acquired by the wearable mountable sensor C. A circuit in the response sensing apparatus may transform data acquired by the sensors A C into data indicative of a response by the person to the displayed first content. For example a response may include at least one of a change in breathing rate a change in heart rate eye movements facial movements gaze direction and or time or a brain wave pattern. Another circuit in the response sensing circuit may detect a reaction by the person to a displayed first content based on the data indicative of a response by the person to the displayed first content. For example a facial response that includes the person moving the ends of their lips above the center portion of the lips may be detected as a smile reaction or a positive reaction. A facial response that includes the person moving the ends of the lips below the center portion of the lips may be detected as a frown reaction or a negative reaction. The observation operation does not include data directly inputted by the person using the user direct input device such as keyboard mouse and voice commands entered by the user through the user direct input device. However in an alternative embodiment the observation operation may include at least one of a quality or a manner of the person s input of data using the direct input device. For example the observation operation may acquire data indicative of the person shouting a voice command without regard to a nature of the voice command or the person striking keys of the keyboard particularly hard without regard to the keyed command or text. In a further embodiment the observation operation may acquire sensor data indicative of the person shouting a voice command and associate a reaction with the nature of the voice command. For example data indicative of a loud voice response may be associated with a spoken command Delete this Web page as a negative reaction to the content of the Web page.

In an embodiment data indicative of a response may include data indicative of at least one of a person s gaze attention gaze dwell time facial movements eye movements pupil dilation physiological parameters heart rate respiration rate etc. stance sub vocalization and other non word audio P 300 response brain waves brain patterns or other detectable aspects. In another embodiment data indicative of a response may include data indicative of at least one of a person s physiological behavioral emotional voluntary or involuntary response. In a further embodiment data indicative of a response may include data acquired by functional near infrared spectroscopy fNIRS indicative of a response. fNIRS data may be acquired by a fNIRS device an embodiment of which is illustrated as the wearable mountable sensor C.

In another embodiment the observation operation detects a reaction by the person to a displayed first content by applying pattern recognition to the data indicative of a response by the person to the displayed first content. For example a reaction may include a response that reveals the person s feelings or attitude toward the displayed first content. In a further embodiment the observation operation detects a reaction by the person to a displayed first content by applying pattern matching to the data indicative of a response by the person to the displayed first content.

In use an embodiment of the operational flow may illustrated by reference to . For example a first content may be displayed to the person on a portion of the display surface such as a screen of BlackBerry or other PDA electronic device. In this example the displayed first content may be a picture of a new car from a brother of the person . Data indicative of a response by the person to the displayed new car is acquired using at least one of sensors A C. The observation operation determines a reaction by the person to the displayed new car based on the data indicative of a response. If for example the data indicates an upward movement of the ends of the person s lips and an opening of their eyes a positive reaction may be detected. The analytical operation determines a content attribute of the displayed picture of the brother s new car. A content attribute may include at least one of a manufacturer of the new car a color of the new car or a body style of the new car such as a convertible coupe four door or SUV. The query operation facilitates a search for a second content based on the detected reaction positive and on the determined content attribute convertible sports car . The search may be facilitated by communicating with an Internet based search service such as Google Yahoo and or Live Search. The broadcast operation displays a second content in a manner perceivable by the person by receiving a result of the facilitated search that includes an indication of the second content and displaying the second content using the display surface . For example the second content may include a picture of next year s model of the same car as the brother s new car.

The operation includes detecting a reaction by the person to a displayed first content. The displayed first content includes a content displayed on a surface coupled with a computing device such as a built in screen of the computing device or a screen physically coupled with computing device or displayed on a surface separate from the computing device such as projected onto a separate screen or a wall surface. The operation includes detecting a reaction by the person to a displayed first content. The displayed first content includes a content displayed by at least one of a mobile communications device handheld communications device desktop computing device limited resources computing device thin computing device or portable computing device. The operations and or may be implemented using the device type detector circuit.

The display surface includes a display surface operable to display electronic content in a manner perceivable by a person. In an embodiment the electronic content includes electronically stored information. In another embodiment electronically stored content may include electronically stored content as described in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26 f . In a further embodiment electronic content may include at least one of electronically stored text Web content picture image or streaming image. The response sensor apparatus includes the sensor A the sensor B the wearable mountable sensor C and a sensor data acquisition module . The response sensor apparatus includes a sensor apparatus operable to acquire data indicative of a response by the person to a first electronic content displayed on the surface .

The analytic circuit includes an analytic circuit operable determine an indication of an expression by the person corresponding with the displayed first electronic content the determination based on the data indicative of a response. In an embodiment the expression by the person may include at least one of an expression by the person of interest disinterest like dislike happiness or anger. The characterization circuit includes a characterization circuit operable to determine an attribute of the displayed first electronic content. The query circuit includes a query circuit operable to cause a search for a second electronic content corresponding to the indication of expression and to the attribute of the first electronic content. The chooser circuit includes a chooser circuit operable to select the second electronic content from a result of the search.

In an alternative embodiment the electronic device may include a digital storage device operable to save the selected second electronic content. In another embodiment the electronic device may include a broadcast circuit operable to facilitate a display at least the first electronic content and the selected second electronic content. In a further embodiment the electronic device may include a receiver circuit illustrated as a transceiver circuit operable to receive a result of the initiated search.

In an alternative embodiment the display surface may include a display surface operable to display electronic content in a manner perceivable by a person and in a manner designed to facilitate sensing a response by the person. In another embodiment the response sensor apparatus may include a sensor apparatus operable to acquire data indicative of a physically manifested response by the person to a first electronic content displayed on the surface. In a further embodiment the analytic circuit may include an analytic circuit operable determine an indication of an emotional expression by the person corresponding with the displayed first electronic content the determination based on the data indicative of a response.

In an alternative embodiment the operational flow may include at least one additional operation . The at least one additional operation may include an operation and or an operation . The operation includes determining a content attribute of the displayed first content. The operational flow includes selecting the second content from the response to the search request.

Returning to an alternative embodiment of the example environment includes the electronic device coupleable to a network . The display surface includes a display surface operable to display electronic content in a manner perceivable by the person . The response sensor apparatus includes a sensor apparatus operable to acquire data indicative of a response by the person to a first electronic content displayed on the surface. The analytic circuit includes an analytic circuit operable to detect a reaction by a person to a displayed first content in response to the acquired data. The query circuit includes a query circuit operable to transmit a search request for a second electronic content that corresponds to the detected reaction and to an attribute of the displayed first content. For example the search request may be addressed to the server and transmitted over the network . The transceiver circuit includes a receiver circuit operable to receive a response to the search request that includes at least an indication of the second content.

In another alternative embodiment the chooser circuit may include a chooser circuit operable to select the second electronic content from the received response to the search request. In a further embodiment the broadcast circuit may include a broadcast circuit operable to facilitate a display of the first electronic content and the second electronic content. In another embodiment the transceiver circuit may include a receiver circuit operable to receive a result of the initiated search. In a further embodiment the digital storage device may include a digital storage device operable to save the received response to the search request. In another embodiment the display surface may include a display surface operable to display electronic content in a manner perceivable by the person and in a manner designed to facilitate sensing a response by the person. In a further embodiment the sensor apparatus may include a sensor apparatus operable to acquire data indicative of a physically manifested response by the person to a first electronic content displayed on the surface.

The electronic device may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include additional circuit s . In addition the electronic device may include a processor such as the processing unit described in conjunction with and or the processor described in conjunction with . In further addition the electronic device may include a digital storage media a communications circuit and or a broadcast circuit . In an embodiment the electronic device may include a network server electronic device or a group of network server electronic devices.

In an embodiment the request receiver circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include at least one of a sensor data receiving circuit and or a content data receiving circuit . In another embodiment the analytic circuit may include at least one additional circuit such as an expression indication analytic circuit .

After a start operation the operational flow includes a reception operation . The reception operation includes receiving from a requester sensor data indicative of a response by a person to a first content displayed to the person. In an alternative embodiment the reception operation includes receiving the sensor data from a requestor via at least one of a network or the Internet. The reception operation may be implemented using the request circuit of . An analysis operation includes analyzing the received sensor data for an indication of an expression by the person corresponding to the first content. The analysis operation may be implemented using the analytic circuit . A query operation includes facilitating a search for a second content using a search parameter corresponding to the indication of an expression by the person and to a content attribute of the displayed first content. In an alternative embodiment the search may include at least one of a search of a local data store a search by a search engine or a search by a Web search engine. The query operation may be implemented using the search circuit . A reply operation includes returning to the requestor an indication of the second content. The indication of the second content may be returned to the requester via at least one of a network or the Internet. The reply operation may be implemented using the reply transmission circuit . The operational flow includes an end operation.

In an alternative embodiment the operational flow may include at least one additional operation such as an operation . The operation includes determining a content attribute of the displayed first content. The operation may be implemented using the attribute determining circuit .

The analysis operation may include at least one additional operation such as an operation . The operation includes analyzing the received sensor data for an indication of an expression of at least one of interest disinterest like dislike excitement boredom happy or anger by the person corresponding to the first content. The operation may be implemented using the expression indication analytic circuit .

The processing circuit includes a processing circuit operable to analyze received sensor data for an indication of an expression by a person corresponding to a first displayed electronic content. For example the received sensor data may include sensor data acquired by the response sensing apparatus described in conjunction with . The query circuit includes a query circuit operable to cause a search for a second electronic content based on the indication of expression and on an attribute of the displayed first electronic content. In an alternative embodiment the query circuit may include a query circuit operable to cause a search of an index for a second electronic content based on the indication of expression and on an attribute of the displayed first electronic content. In an embodiment the search for a second electronic content may include a search of an index saved on the digital storage device. In another embodiment the search for a second electronic content may include a search of at least one of a Web database Web index directory index file index content of a directory or content of a file.

The chooser circuit includes a chooser circuit operable to select the second electronic content from a result of the search for a second electronic content. The digital storage device includes a storage device operable to save an indication of the selected second electronic content. For example the indication of the selected second electronic content may be saved in a storage media .

In an alternative embodiment the electronic device may include a characterization circuit operable to determine the attribute of the displayed first electronic content. In another embodiment the electronic device may include a transmitter circuit operable to send an indication of the selected second electronic content addressed to the requester. In a further embodiment the electronic device may include a receiver circuit operable to receive from a requestor sensor data acquired from a person and indicative of a response by the person to a display of a first electronic content. The receiver circuit may further include a receiver circuit operable to receive from a requestor sensor data acquired from the person and indicative of a response by the person to a display of a first electronic content and to receive data that is indicative of the displayed first electronic content.

In an alternative embodiment the process further includes select the second content from a result of the search for a second content . In another embodiment the process further includes save data indicative of the selected second content . In another embodiment the computer readable medium includes a computer storage medium.

The electronic device may include a wired or wireless access to digital content using the transceiver such as via a network . In an alternative embodiment the electronic device may be coupled to the network via a wireless link a satellite link and or a wired link.

In an embodiment the electronic device includes a reaction detector circuit an analytic circuit a query circuit and a display circuit . In some embodiments one or more of the reaction detector circuit the analytic determining circuit the query circuit and or the display circuit may be structurally distinct from the remaining circuits. In an embodiment the electronic device or a portion of the electronic device may be implemented in whole or in part using the thin computing device described in conjunction with and or the computing device described in conjunction with . In another embodiment the electronic device or a portion of the electronic device may be implemented using Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. In a further embodiment one or more of the circuits and or the machine may be implemented in hardware software and or firmware. The person may input commands and information to the electronic device using the user direct input device .

The electronic device may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include additional circuits . In addition the electronic device may include a processor not illustrated such as the processing unit described in conjunction with and or the processor described in conjunction with . In further addition the electronic device may include a computer storage media illustrated as a data store. In an embodiment the electronic device may include a mobile electronic device.

In an embodiment the reaction detector circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include at least one of a reaction acquisition circuit positive negative reaction circuit a gaze reaction circuit a physiological reaction circuit a physical reaction circuit a common attribute circuit a search results attribute circuit a contextual attribute circuit a content characteristic circuit a device type circuit a display coupling circuit and or a serial parallel display reaction detector circuit .

In another embodiment the analytic circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include at least one of a content attributes determining circuit a style analytic circuit a sub hierarchy analytic circuit or an attribute comparator circuit .

In a further embodiment the query circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include at least one of a multiple element search parameter circuit a local data store query circuit a search engine query circuit a third party search engine query circuit an algorithm search facilitating circuit a multiple second content search facilitating circuit a positive negative correlation search facilitating circuit or a search parameter scope circuit .

After a start operation the operational flow includes an observation operation . The observation operation includes detecting a reaction by a person to a displayed first content of the at least two instances of displayed content having a common contextual attribute. The observation operation may be implemented using the reaction detector circuit of and or the response sensing apparatus of . In an alternative embodiment the reaction detector circuit is at least substantially similar to the reaction detector circuit of .

An analytical operation includes determining a content attribute of the displayed first content. The analytical operation may be implemented using the analytic circuit . A query operation includes initiating a search for a second content using a search parameter corresponding to the detected reaction and to the determined content attribute. The query operation may be implemented using the query circuit . A broadcast operation includes facilitating a display of the second content in a manner perceivable by the person. The broadcast operation may be implemented using the display circuit . The operational flow then proceeds to an end operation.

The operation includes detecting a physiological reaction by a person to a displayed first content of the at least two instances of displayed content having a common contextual attribute. The operation may be implemented using the physiological reaction circuit . The operation includes detecting a physiological response by a person to a displayed first content of the at least two instances of displayed content having a common contextual attribute. The operation may be implemented using the physical reaction circuit . The operation includes detecting a reaction by a person to a displayed first content of the at least two instances of displayed content having a common contextual attribute. The common contextual attribute including the at least two instances of displayed content having been returned in response to a search request. The operation may be implemented using the common attribute circuit .

The display surface includes a display surface operable to display at least two instances of electronic content in a manner perceivable by a person such as by the person . The response sensor apparatus includes a sensor data acquisition module and at least one the sensor A the sensor B the wearable mountable sensor C. The response sensor apparatus includes a sensor apparatus operable to acquire data indicative of a response by the person to at least two instances electronic content displayed by the surface .

The response sensor apparatus includes a response sensor apparatus operable to acquire data respectively indicative of respective responses by the person to a first electronic content and a response to a second electronic content of at least two instances of electronic content displayed on the display surface and having a common contextual attribute. In an alternative embodiment the response sensor apparatus further includes a response sensor apparatus operable to acquire data respectively indicative of respective responses by the person to a first electronic content and a response to a second electronic content of at least two instances of electronic content having a common contextual attribute and concurrently displayed on the surface. In another alternative embodiment the response sensor apparatus further includes a response sensor apparatus operable to acquire data respectively indicative of respective responses by the person to a first electronic content and a response to a second electronic content of at least two instances of electronic content having a common contextual attribute and serially displayed on the surface

The target content selector circuit includes a target content selector circuit operable to select the first electronic content as an electronic content of interest over the second electronic content based at least in part on the data indicative of the response to the person to the first electronic content and to the second electronic content. In an alternative embodiment the target content selector circuit includes a target content selector circuit operable to select the first electronic content as an electronic content of interest over the second electronic content by application of a target selection algorithm that is responsive to the data indicative of the response to the person to the first electronic content and to the second electronic content. For example the target selection algorithm may be structured to select a target electronic content in response to a longest duration of the person s gaze with respect to the first electronic content and to the second electronic content. In another example the target selection algorithm may be structured to select a target electronic content in response to a plurality of parameters such as duration of the person s gaze and the person s P 300 electrical brain wave response with respect to the first electronic content and with respect to the second electronic content.

The characterization circuit includes a characterization circuit operable to determine an attribute of the displayed first electronic content. The query circuit includes a query circuit operable to cause a search for a third electronic content based on the determined attribute of the first electronic content. The chooser circuit includes a chooser circuit operable to select the third electronic content from a result of the initiated search.

In an alternative electronic embodiment the electronic apparatus may include a digital storage device operable to save the selected third electronic content. In another alternative embodiment the electronic apparatus may include a receiver circuit operable to receive a result of the initiated search illustrated as the transceiver circuit . In an alternative embodiment the electronic apparatus may include a broadcast circuit operable to facilitate a display of electronic content using the display surface and or another display surface such as a wall or tabletop. In another alternative embodiment the electronic apparatus may include a broadcast circuit operable to facilitate a display of electronic content.

In an alternative embodiment the electronic apparatus may include a manifestation analyzer circuit . The manifestation analyzer circuit includes a circuit operable to determine an indication of an expression by the person related to the first electronic content the determination in response to the data indicative of a response to the first electronic content. In this alternative embodiment the query circuit includes a query circuit operable to cause a search for the third electronic content based on the indication of expression and the attribute of the first electronic content.

In another alternative embodiment the computer readable medium includes a computer readable storage medium . In a further alternative embodiment the computer readable medium includes a computer readable communication medium .

In an embodiment the electronic device includes a request receiver circuit a content of interest selector circuit a search facilitating circuit and a reply sending circuit . In an alternative embodiment the electronic device may include at least one of the communications circuit a broadcast circuit a content attribute receiver circuit a content attribute determining circuit a reaction analyzer circuit a context attribute receiver circuit a processor a digital storage device or additional circuit s . In some embodiments one or more of the request receiver circuit the content of interest selector circuit the search facilitating circuit the reply sending circuit the communications circuit the broadcast circuit the content attribute receiver circuit the content attribute determining circuit the reaction analyzing circuit the context attribute receiver circuit the processor the digital storage device or the additional circuit s may be structurally distinct from the remaining circuits. In an embodiment the electronic device or a portion of the electronic device may be implemented in whole or in part using the thin computing device described in conjunction with and or the computing device described in conjunction with . In another embodiment the electronic device or a portion of the electronic device may be implemented using Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. In a further embodiment one or more of the circuits and or the machine may be implemented in hardware software and or firmware. The processor may be implemented using a processor such as the processing unit described in conjunction with and or the processor described in conjunction with . In an embodiment the electronic device may include a mobile electronic device.

After a start operation the operational flow includes reception operation . The reception operation includes receiving information that is indicative of respective responses by a person to each of at least two instances of electronically displayed content. The received information is derived from data acquired by a sensor coupled to the person and sent by a requestor electronic device. For example in an embodiment the data may include data acquired by at least one of the sensors A C and the response sensing apparatus of a response by the person viewing the at least two instances of content electronically displayed by the display surface of or as described in conjunction with . The reception operation may be implemented using the request receiver circuit of . A choosing operation includes selecting a particular content from the at least two instances of electronically displayed content. The selecting based at least in part on the received information. The choosing operation may be implemented using the content of interest selector circuit . A focusing operation includes facilitating a search for a new content using a search parameter corresponding to a content attribute of the particular content. The focusing operation may be implemented using the search facilitation circuit . A reply operation includes returning an indication of the new content to the requestor electronic device. The reply operation may be implemented using the reply sending circuit . The operational flow then moves to an end operation. In an alternative embodiment the operational flow may include at least one additional operation illustrated as an additional operation .

The information receiver circuit includes an information receiver circuit operable to receive information that is indicative of respective responses by a person to each of at least two instances of electronically displayed content. The received information is derived from data acquired by a sensor coupled to the person and sent by a requestor electronic device. For example in an embodiment the data may include data acquired by at least one of the sensors A C and the response sensing apparatus sensing respective responses to the person viewing the at least two instance of content electronically displayed by the display surface of or as described in conjunction with . The selector circuit includes a selector circuit operable to choose a particular content from the at least two instances of electronically displayed content the selecting based at least in part on the received information. The query circuit includes a query circuit operable to facilitate a search for a new content using a search parameter corresponding to a content attribute of the particular content. The CPI transmitter circuit includes a transmitter circuit operable to send information that is indicative of the new content to the requestor electronic device.

The characterization circuit includes a characterization circuit operable to determine the content attribute of the particular content. The chooser circuit includes a chooser circuit operable to select the new content from a result of the facilitated search. The analytic circuit includes an analytic circuit operable to analyze the received information for a respective indication of a reaction by the person corresponding to each of the at least two instances of electronically displayed content. The storage device includes a storage device operable to save data indicative of the new content. The results receiver circuit includes a receiver circuit operable to receive a result of the search for a new content.

In an alternative embodiment the process further includes receiving information indicative of a content attribute of the particular content . In another alternative embodiment the process further includes determining a content attribute of the particular content . In a further embodiment the process further includes analyzing the received information for an indication of a reaction of the person to the particular content . In another alternative embodiment the process further includes receiving information indicative of a common contextual attribute of the at least two instances of electronically displayed content . In a further alternative embodiment the process further includes saving data indicative of the new content . In another alternative embodiment the computer readable medium includes computer storage medium .

In an alternative embodiment the electronic apparatus may include means for receiving information indicative of a content attribute of the particular content. In another embodiment the electronic apparatus may include means for determining a content attribute of the particular content. In a further alternative embodiment the electronic apparatus may include means for receiving data indicative of a common contextual attribute of the at least two instances of electronically displayed content.

In an embodiment the electronic device includes a synthesizer circuit an analytic circuit a query circuit and a display circuit . In some embodiments one or more of the synthesizer circuit the analytic circuit the query circuit and the display circuit may be structurally distinct from the remaining circuits. In an embodiment the electronic device or a portion of the electronic device may be implemented in whole or in part using the thin computing device described in conjunction with and or the computing device described in conjunction with . In another embodiment the electronic device or a portion of the electronic device may be implemented using Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. In a further embodiment one or more of the circuits and or the machine may be implemented in hardware software and or firmware. The person may input commands and information to the electronic device using the user direct input device .

The electronic device may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include additional circuit s . In addition the electronic device may include a processor such as the processing unit described in conjunction with and or the processor described in conjunction with . In further addition the electronic device may include a computer storage media illustrated as a data store. In an embodiment the electronic device may include a mobile electronic device.

After a start operation the operational flow moves to a synthesize operation . The synthesize operation includes generating a marketing impact information indicative of a physiological response by a person to an electronically displayed general advertisement. In an embodiment a general advertisement includes an advertisement that is not specific or personalized to the person. In another embodiment a general advertisement includes an advertisement that is not specialized for the person. For example a general advertisement may include an advertisement selected using revealed or entered profile information of the person or an advertisement selected based upon a content displayed to the person such as by using Google AdSense. In a further embodiment a general advertisement includes an advertisement for which the person s physiologic response is not previously known. In another embodiment a general advertisement includes a targeted advertisement for which the person s physiologic response is not previously known. In a further embodiment a general advertisement includes a previously selected targeted advertisement for which the person s physiologic response is known when a more focused targeted advertisement is sought. The synthesize operation may be implemented using the synthesizer circuit of . Data corresponding to the physiological response by the person to the electronically displayed general advertisement may be acquired using the response sensing apparatus of . In an alternative embodiment data corresponding to the physiological response by the person to the electronically displayed general advertisement may be acquired using a reaction detector circuit not shown such as by the reaction detector circuit of and or the reaction detector circuit of in conjunction with the response sensing apparatus of .

An attribute operation includes acquiring an indication of a characteristic of the electronically displayed general advertisement. In an embodiment a characteristic of the electronically displayed general advertisement may include at least one of a category tag subject color texture or theme. For example a subject characteristic may include a nature athletic criminal animal car airplane boat flower people or entertainer. The attribute operation may be implemented using the analytic circuit of . A choice operation includes initiating a selection of a targeted advertisement using an advertising rule responsive to at least the characteristic of the electronically displayed general advertisement and the marketing impact information. The choice operation may be implemented using the query circuit of . The operational flow then moves to an end operation.

The response sensor apparatus includes a response sensor apparatus operable to acquire data indicative of a physiological response by the person to a general advertisement. The response sensor apparatus includes a sensor data acquisition module and at least one user sensor operable to acquire data indicative of the response by the person to the general advertisement displayed by or on a display surface. The at least one user sensor is illustrated as a sensor A a sensor B and or a wearable mountable sensor C. The at least one user sensor may be physically incorporated with the electronic device or may be physically separate from the electronic device and electronically coupled with the device. The general advertisement may include at least one of a static advertisement such as a billboard or a poster an advertisement displayed on the electronic display surface or an advertisement projected on the display surface . In an embodiment the response sensor apparatus is at least substantially similar to the response sensor apparatus described in conjunction with .

The recognition circuit includes a recognition circuit operable to generate a marketing impact information about the general advertisement based at least in part on the acquired data indicative of a physiological response. The query circuit includes a query circuit operable to initiate a selection of a targeted advertisement by a targeted advertising selection engine responsive to at least a characteristic of the general advertisement and the marketing impact information. In an embodiment the targeted advertising selection engine includes a local targeted advertising selection engine . In another embodiment the targeted advertising selection engine includes a targeted advertising selection engine included in an adserver . In an alternative embodiment the query circuit is operable to initiate at least one of a local or a remote selection of a targeted advertisement. For example the remote selection of a targeted advertisement may be performed by a remote advertising server illustrated as an adserver . In another alternative embodiment the targeted advertisement may be selected from at least two instances of available marketing content.

The electronic display circuit includes an electronic display circuit operable to present the targeted advertisement in a manner perceivable by a person. In an embodiment the electronic display circuit is operable to drive an electronic display surface. For example the electronic display circuit may drive the electronic display surface . In another embodiment the electronic display circuit includes projector display engine operable to project the general advertisement on a display surface .

In an alternative embodiment the recognition circuit includes a feature extraction circuit operable to compute a response information based at least in part on the acquired data indicative of a physiological response. In another embodiment the recognition circuit includes a classification circuit operable to classify a reaction by the person to the general advertisement based at least in part on the response information.

In a further embodiment the electronic display circuit includes an electronic display circuit operable to present the general advertisement and the targeted advertisement in a manner perceivable by a person. In an embodiment the electronic display circuit includes an electronic display operable to present electronic content in a manner perceivable by the person and in a manner designed to facilitate sensing a response by the person. In another embodiment the electronic display circuit further includes an electronic display operable to present the targeted advertisement in a manner perceivable by at least one of the person s visual audio tactile or olfactory senses.

In an embodiment the electronic system includes a characterization circuit . The characterization circuit includes a characterization circuit operable to acquire an indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement. The characterization circuit may further include a characterization circuit operable to at least one of receive or determine an indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement. In another embodiment the electronic system includes a digital storage device operable to save an indication of the selected targeted advertisement. In a further embodiment the electronic system includes an advertising broadcast circuit operable to facilitate a display of the selected targeted advertisement by the electronic display. In a further embodiment the electronic system includes a receiver circuit operable to receive an indication of the selected targeted advertisement.

In an alternative embodiment the process of the program instructions may include additional instruction s . The additional instructions may include instructions initiating an electronic display of the general advertisement . The additional instructions may include instructions receiving an indication of the targeted advertisement . The additional instructions may instructions saving an indication of the targeted advertisement .

In another alternative embodiment the instructions initiating further include instructions sending a request to an advertising server for a selection of a targeted advertisement using an advertising rule responsive to at least the characteristic of the electronically displayed general advertisement and the marketing impact information . In a further alternative embodiment the instructions initiating further include instructions receiving a selected targeted advertisement from an advertising server. The targeted advertisement is selected using an advertising rule responsive to at least the characteristic of the electronically displayed general advertisement and the marketing impact information .

In a further embodiment the computer readable medium includes a computer readable storage medium . In another embodiment the computer readable includes a computer readable communications medium .

In an alternative embodiment the electronic device may include at least one additional means. The at least one additional means may include means means or means . Means includes means for electronically displaying the general advertisement in a manner perceivable by the person. Means includes means for receiving the targeted advertisement. Means includes means for saving an indication of the targeted advertisement.

The electronic device may include a wired or wireless access via a network to advertising other digital content and or to servers using the transceiver . In an alternative embodiment the electronic device may be coupled to the network via a wireless link a satellite link and or a wired link. In another embodiment the circuits or the electronic device or a portion of the electronic device may be implemented using Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. In a further embodiment one or more of the circuits and or the machine may be implemented in hardware software and or firmware. The person may input commands and information to the electronic device using the user direct input device .

The electronic device may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include additional circuit s . In addition the electronic device may include a processor such as the processing unit described in conjunction with and or the processor described in conjunction with . In further addition the electronic device may include a computer storage media illustrated as a data store. In an embodiment the electronic device may include a mobile electronic device.

After a start operation the operational flow moves to an assessment operation . The assessment operation includes generating a marketing impact information indicative of a physiological response by a person to an electronically displayed general advertisement. The assessment operation may be implemented using the marketing evaluation circuit of . A call operation includes sending the marketing impact information to an advertising selector server. The call operation may be implemented using the targeted advertisement request circuit . A return operation includes receiving an indication of a targeted advertisement chosen using an advertising rule responsive to at least a characteristic of the electronically displayed general advertisement and the marketing impact information. The return operation may be implemented using the targeted advertisement reception circuit . A broadcast operation includes facilitating an electronic display of the targeted advertisement. The broadcast operation may be implemented using the targeted advertisement broadcast circuit . The operational flow then moves to an end operation.

The sensor apparatus includes a sensor apparatus operable to acquire data indicative of a physiological response by the person to a general advertisement. The sensor apparatus includes a sensor data acquisition module and at least one user sensor operable to acquire data indicative of a response by a person to the general advertisement displayed by or on a display surface. The at least one user sensor is illustrated as a sensor A a sensor B and or a wearable mountable sensor C. The at least one user sensor may be physically incorporated with the electronic device or may be physically separate from the electronic device and electronically coupled with the device. The general advertisement may include at least one of a static advertisement such as a billboard an advertisement displayed on the electronic display surface or an advertisement projected on a display surface . In an embodiment the sensor apparatus is at least substantially similar to the response sensor apparatus described in conjunction with .

The recognition circuit includes a recognition circuit operable to generate a marketing impact information about the general advertisement based at least in part on the acquired data indicative of a physiological response by the person to the general advertisement. The caller circuit includes a caller circuit operable to send a request for a targeted advertisement. The receiver circuit includes a receiver circuit operable to receive an indication of a targeted advertisement selected from at least two instances of available marketing content by a selection engine responsive at least to a characteristic of the general advertisement and the marketing impact information. The electronic display circuit includes an electronic display circuit operable to present the targeted advertisement in a manner perceivable by the person.

In an embodiment the recognition circuit further includes a feature extraction circuit operable to compute response information based at least in part on the acquired data indicative of a physiological response by the person to the general advertisement. In another embodiment the recognition circuit further includes a classification circuit operable to classify a reaction by the person to the general advertisement based at least in part on the response information.

In a further embodiment the caller circuit includes a caller circuit operable to send a request for a targeted advertisement to an advertisement server. In another embodiment the caller circuit includes a caller circuit operable to send a request for a targeted advertisement and an indication of the characteristic of the general advertisement. In another embodiment the receiver circuit includes a receiver circuit operable to receive from an advertising server an indication of a targeted advertisement selected from at least two instances of available marketing content by a selection engine responsive at least to a characteristic of the general advertisement and the marketing impact information.

In an embodiment the electronic display circuit includes an electronic display circuit operable to present the general advertisement and the targeted advertisement in a manner perceivable by a person. In another embodiment the electronic display circuit includes an electronic display circuit operable to present electronic content in a manner perceivable by the person and in a manner facilitating sensing a response by the person. In a further embodiment the electronic display circuit includes an electronic display circuit operable to present the targeted advertisement in a manner perceivable by at least one of the person s visual audio tactile or olfactory senses.

In another embodiment the system includes a characterization circuit operable to acquire an indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement. The characterization circuit may further include a characterization circuit operable to at least one of receive or determine an indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement. In a further embodiment the system includes a digital storage device operable to save an indication of the selected targeted advertisement. In an alternative embodiment the system includes an advertising broadcast circuit operable to facilitate a display of the selected targeted advertisement by the electronic display circuit.

In an alternative embodiment the process of the program instructions includes facilitating an electronic display of the general advertisement . In another alternative embodiment the process of the program instructions includes saving an indication of the targeted advertisement .

In an embodiment the indication receiving process of the program instructions includes receiving a targeted advertisement chosen by an advertising rule responsive to at least a characteristic of the electronically displayed general advertisement and the marketing impact information . In another embodiment the indication receiving process of the program instructions includes receiving from the advertising selector server an indication of a targeted advertisement chosen by an advertising rule responsive to at least a characteristic of the electronically displayed general advertisement and the marketing impact information.

In another embodiment the computer readable medium includes a computer storage medium . In a further embodiment the computer readable medium includes a communications medium .

In an alternative embodiment the electronic device may include at least one additional means. The at least one additional means may include means means means or means . The means includes means for electronically displaying the targeted advertisement. The means includes means for saving the indication of a targeted advertisement. The means includes means for determining a characteristic of the electronically displayed general advertisement. The means includes means for receiving the indication of a targeted advertisement.

In an alternative embodiment the electronic device may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include a communications circuit a recognition circuit and or an additional circuit s . In addition the electronic device may include a processor which may be at least substantially similar to the processing unit described in conjunction with and or the processor described in conjunction with . In addition the electronic device may include a computer storage media illustrated as a digital storage device .

In another embodiment one or more of the circuits or the electronic device or a portion of the electronic device may be implemented using Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. In a further embodiment one or more of the circuits and or the electronic device may be implemented in hardware software and or firmware.

In an alternative embodiment the electronic device may be coupled to the network via a wireless link a satellite link and or a wired link. In another embodiment the electronic device is operable using the communications circuit to communicate with other networked electronic devices such as a server operable to serve advertising and or other digital content. In a further embodiment the electronic device is operable to communicate with a requestor electronic device . In an embodiment the requestor electronic device is operable to acquire information indicative of a physiological response by a person to a general advertisement such as the electronic device of and or the electronic apparatus of .

After a start operation the operation flow includes an incoming operation . The incoming operation includes receiving from a requestor device a marketing impact information indicative of a physiological response by a person to a general advertisement. The incoming operation may be implemented using the request receiver circuit of . In an embodiment the marketing impact information is originated by a requestor electronic device . For example the requester electronic device may include the electronic device of and or the electronic apparatus of . A classification operation includes acquiring an indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement. The classification operation may be implemented using the advertisement characterizer circuit . A choosing operation includes initiating a selection of a targeted advertisement by an advertising rule responsive to at least the characteristic of the general advertisement and the marketing impact information. The choosing operation may be implemented using the targeted advertisement picker circuit . A reply operation includes returning an indication of the targeted advertisement. The reply operation may be implemented using the response sender circuit . The operational flow then includes an end operation.

The operation may include at least one additional operation. The at least one additional operation may include an operation or an operation . The operation includes receiving an indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement in conjunction with receiving the marketing impact information. The operation includes receiving an indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement from a third party device.

In another embodiment the electronic device includes at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include a characterization circuit a chooser circuit an analytic circuit a digital storage device a results receiver circuit a processor and or an additional circuit s . The processor may be at least substantially similar to the processing unit described in conjunction with and or the processor described in conjunction with . In an embodiment at least one circuit may be implemented using Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. In a further embodiment one or more of the circuits and or the electronic device may be implemented in hardware software and or firmware.

In an embodiment the electronic device may be coupled to the network via a wireless link a satellite link and or a wired link. In another embodiment the electronic device is operable to communicate with other networked electronic devices such as a server operable to serve advertising and or other digital content. In a further embodiment the electronic device is operable to communicate with a requestor device . In an embodiment the requestor electronic device is operable to acquire information indicative of a physiological response by a person to a general advertisement such as the electronic device of and or the electronic apparatus of .

The advertising services circuit includes an advertising services circuit operable to receive from a requestor device a marketing impact information indicative of a physiological response by a person to a general advertisement. In an embodiment a receipt of the marketing impact information may be considered a request for a targeted advertisement. In an alternative embodiment the advertising services circuit may further include an advertising services circuit operable to receive from a requestor device a marketing impact information based at least in part on data produced by a sensor coupled to the person and indicative of a physiological response by a person to a general advertisement. In another alternative embodiment the advertising services circuit further includes an advertising services circuit operable to receive a marketing impact information based at least in part on data produced by a sensor coupled to the person and indicative of a physiological response by a person to a general advertisement. In a further embodiment the advertising services circuit further includes an advertising services circuit operable to receive a marketing impact information indicative of a physiological response by a person to a general advertisement and to transform the marketing impact information to include an indication of a reaction by the person to the general advertisement. In an alternative embodiment the advertising services circuit further includes an advertising services circuit operable to receive a marketing impact information based at least in part on data produced by a sensor coupled to the person and indicative of a physiological response by a person to a general advertisement and a request for the targeted advertisement.

The attribute circuit includes an attribute circuit operable to obtain an indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement. In an alternative embodiment the attribute circuit further includes an attribute circuit operable to acquire an indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement. In another embodiment the attribute circuit further includes an attribute circuit operable to determine an indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement.

The targeted advertising selection engine includes a targeted advertising selection engine operable to pick a targeted advertisement based on at least the indication of a characteristic of the general advertisement and the marketing impact information. The reply circuit includes a reply circuit operable to return an indication of the targeted advertisement. In an alternative embodiment the reply circuit may further include a reply circuit operable to return an indication of the targeted advertisement to the requestor device. In another alternative embodiment the reply circuit further includes a reply circuit operable to return an indication of the targeted advertisement to an advertising server.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the systems apparatus devices computer program products and or processes using block diagrams flow diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples. A particular block diagram operation diagram flowchart illustration environment and or example should not be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated therein. For example in certain instances one or more elements of an environment may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added.

Insofar as such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood that each function and or operation within such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof unless otherwise indicated. In an embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of electrical circuitry. Consequently as used herein electrical circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of random access memory and or electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modern communications switch or optical electrical equipment . Those having skill in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in an analog or digital fashion or some combination thereof.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

The herein described aspects depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

