---

title: Tunable ferroelectric supported catalysts and method and uses thereof
abstract: Disclosed are tunable catalysts and methods of controlling the activity of a catalyst. For example, disclosed are methods of controlling the activity of a catalyst, comprising providing a catalyst, comprising a ferroelectric substrate of finite thickness comprising two opposing surfaces, the ferroelectric substrate being characterized as having a polarization; an electrode surmounting one of the surfaces of the ferroelectric substrate; and a catalytically active material surmounting the surface of the ferroelectric substrate opposing the electrode; and subjecting the ferroelectric substrate to a controllable electric field to give rise to a modulation of the polarization of the ferroelectric substrate, whereby the modulation of the polarization controllably alters the activity of one or more chemical species on the catalytically active material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08592767&OS=08592767&RS=08592767
owner: The Trustees of The University of Pennsylvania
number: 08592767
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070807
---
This application is the National Stage of International Application No. PCT US2007 017616 filed Aug. 7 2007 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 835 947 filed Aug. 7 2006 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 908 795 filed Mar. 29 2007 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The invention was made with U.S. Government support. The Government may have certain rights in the invention under Office of Naval Research Grant No. N00014 00 1 0372 Air Force Office of Scientific Research Grant No. FA9550 04 1 0077 and National Science Foundation Grant No. LRSM DMR05 20020.

The field relates to ferroelectric nanostructures methods of making such structures and devices containing the same. The field also pertains to catalysis and catalytic materials.

Various scientific and patent publications are referred to herein. Each is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Catalysts are important materials for the use in the synthesis of chemical compounds such as petrochemicals pharmaceuticals polymers and the like. One class of catalysts that has received a great deal of attention in this respect is that of oxide supported metal catalysts which are used in numerous industrial applications. Much progress has been made in determining the relationship between catalytic activity and the size shape and distribution of metal particles or films on a wide range of oxide supports. Studies have also begun to elucidate the effect of the support material on the properties of the catalytic metal surface showing that the surface polarization acidity and geometry as well as the concentration of surface defects all play a significant role in determining the behavior of the catalyst. However the ability to vary and control the properties of catalytic materials in real time during a chemical synthesis is still lacking. Accordingly there remains the need to be able to actively control the polarization of catalytic materials which would have great utility in providing tunable catalysis .

In one aspect of the present invention there are provided methods of controlling the activity of a catalyst comprising providing a catalyst comprising a ferroelectric substrate of finite thickness comprising two opposing surfaces the ferroelectric substrate being characterized as having a polarization an electrode surmounting one of the surfaces of the ferroelectric substrate and a catalytically active material surmounting the surface of the ferroelectric substrate opposing the electrode and subjecting the ferroelectric substrate to a controllable electric field to give rise to a modulation of the polarization of the ferroelectric substrate whereby the modulation of the polarization controllably alters the activity of one or more chemical species on the catalytically active material.

In other aspects of the present invention there are provided methods of controlling the activity of a catalyst comprising providing a catalyst comprising a ferroelectric substrate of finite thickness the ferroelectric substrate being characterized as having a polarization and a catalytically active material surmounting the surface of the ferroelectric substrate and subjecting the ferroelectric substrate to a controllable electric field to give rise to a modulation of the polarization of the ferroelectric substrate whereby the modulation of the polarization controllably alters the activity of one or more chemical species on the catalytically active material. Other aspects of the present invention provide products made by these methods.

The present invention also provides tunable catalysts comprising a ferroelectric substrate of finite thickness comprising two opposing surfaces the ferroelectric substrate being characterized as having a polarization an electrode surmounting one of the surfaces of the ferroelectric substrate and a catalytically active material surmounting the surface of the ferroelectric substrate opposing the electrode wherein the electrode and the catalytically active thin film are capable of subjecting the ferroelectric substrate to a controllable electric field to modulate the polarization of the ferroelectric substrate whereby the modulation of the polarization is capable of controllably altering the activity of one or more chemical species on the catalytically active material.

Additional aspects of the invention provide tunable catalysts comprising a ferroelectric substrate of finite thickness the ferroelectric substrate being characterized as having a polarization and a catalytically active material surmounting the surface of the ferroelectric substrate wherein the ferroelectric substrate is capable of being subjected to a controllable electric field to modulate the polarization of the ferroelectric substrate whereby the modulation of the polarization is capable of controllably altering the activity of one or more chemical species on the catalytically active material. Products made using the tunable catalysts are further aspects of the present invention.

In one non limiting embodiment as described further herein a new paradigm of dynamical control of surface structure and reactivity is illustrated using density functional theory calculations of the adsorption of molecules and atoms to the surface of ultrathin Pt 100 films supported on ferroelectric perovskite substrates such as PbTiO. Reorienting the polarization direction of the substrate dramatically changes the chemisorption energies of CO O C and N and alters the reaction pathways for dissociation of CO O N and NO. Controlling the structural and electronic effects of a polarized substrate on the metal surface gives rise to tunable catalysis.

The general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as defined in the appended claims. Other aspects of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the detailed description of the invention as provided herein.

The present invention may be understood more readily by reference to the following detailed description taken in connection with the accompanying figures and examples which form a part of this disclosure. It is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the specific devices methods applications conditions or parameters described and or shown herein and that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments by way of example only and is not intended to be limiting of the claimed invention. Also as used in the specification including the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include the plural and reference to a particular numerical value includes at least that particular value unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The term plurality as used herein means more than one. When a range of values is expressed another embodiment includes from the one particular value and or to the other particular value. Similarly when values are expressed as approximations by use of the antecedent about it will be understood that the particular value forms another embodiment. All ranges are inclusive and combinable.

It is to be appreciated that certain features of the invention which are for clarity described herein in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features of the invention that are for brevity described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided separately or in any subcombination. Further reference to values stated in ranges include each and every value within that range.

As used herein spatial or directional terms such as inner outer left right up down horizontal vertical and the like relate to the invention as it is shown in the drawing figures. However it is to be understood that the invention can assume various alternative orientations and accordingly such terms are not to be considered as limiting. Further all numbers expressing dimensions physical characteristics and so forth used in the specification and claims are to be understood as being modified in all instances by the term about . Accordingly unless indicated to the contrary the numerical values set forth in the following specification and claims can vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of reported significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding techniques. Moreover all ranges disclosed herein are to be understood to encompass any and all subranges subsumed therein. For example a stated range of 1 to 10 should be considered to include any and all subranges between and inclusive of the minimum value of 1 and the maximum value of 10 that is all subranges beginning with a minimum value of 1 or more and ending with a maximum value of 10 or less e.g. 1 to 7.1 or 2.9 to 8.2 or 7.8 to 10.

As used herein the term perovskite means a structure with an empirical formula given by ABO where A is a cation a combination of cations or a combination of cations and vacancies B is a cation a combination of cations or a combination of cations and vacancies and O is Oxygen.

As used herein the term epitaxial means the growth on a crystalline substrate of a crystalline substance that copies the crystalline orientation of the crystalline substrate. The terms lattice matching registration and epitaxy may be used herein unless otherwise indicated.

In one aspect of the present invention there are provided methods of controlling the activity of a catalyst. These methods include providing a catalyst comprising a ferroelectric substrate of finite thickness comprising two opposing surfaces the ferroelectric substrate being characterized as having a polarization an electrode surmounting one of the surfaces of the ferroelectric substrate and a catalytically active material surmounting the surface of the ferroelectric substrate opposing the electrode and subjecting the ferroelectric substrate to a controllable electric field to give rise to a modulation of the polarization of the ferroelectric substrate whereby the modulation of the polarization controllably alters the activity of one or more chemical species on the catalytically active material.

The controllable electric field can modulate the magnitude of the bulk polarization the direction of the bulk polarization or both of the ferroelectric substrate. The polarization can be controllably switched from positive to negative from negative to positive or any combination thereof. The polarization can also be controllably switched in real time. The controllable electric field can be transient time varying or constant. The activity of the catalytically active material suitably includes chemisorption desorption dissociation reaction or any combination thereof of one or more chemical species on the catalytically active material.

The catalytically active material can be in the form of one or more thin films one or more islands one or more lines one or more nanoparticles or any combination thereof.

Suitable ferroelectric substrates comprise a perovskite a variant of a perovskite structure a tungsten bronze structure a bismuth oxide layered structure a water soluble ferroelectric a ferroelectric organic polymer a ferroelectric ceramic polymer or any combination thereof. Species of suitable ferroelectric substrate materials are provided in the list below 

Suitable ferroelectric substrates can have a lattice constant substantially the same as the lattice constant of the catalytically active material. Particularly preferred ferroelectric substrates comprises PbTiO. Other preferred embodiments include the catalytically active metal comprising Pt. Preferably when PbTiOis used it is terminated with TiO. Such tunable and catalysts methods are especially useful when subjecting the ferroelectric substrate to a controllable electric field to improve the dissociation of CO from the Pt surface.

It is envisioned that in many other embodiments suitable ferroelectric substrates do not necessarily have a lattice constant substantially the same as the lattice constant of the catalytically active material.

A variety of ferroelectric materials that can be suitably used are described in the following references which are organized by type of material G. Parravano J. Chem. Phys. 20 342 1952 . T. Kawai K. Kunimoki T. Kondow T. Onishi and K. Tamaru Ferroelectric effect in catalytic reactions over a BaTiO3 surface at its Curie point 120 C. Zeitschrift fur Physikalische Chemie 86 268 1973 . A. L. Cabrera B. C. Sales M. B. Maple H. Suhl G. W. Stupian and A. B. Chase Catalysis of reactions involving oxides of carbon and nitrogen by the ferroelectric compound potassium niobate Mater. Res. Bull. 14 1155 1979 . C. Park and R. T. K. Baker Chem. Mater. 14 273 2002 . C. Park and R. T. K. Baker Induction of an electronic perturbation in supported metal catalysts J. Phys. Chem. B 104 4418 2000 . E. Ramos Moore J. A. Baier Saip and A. L. Cabrera Desorption of carbon dioxide from small potassium niobate particles induced by the particles ferroelectric transition Surf. Sci. 17 3472 2006 . Y. Inoue T. Imai K. Sato Different catalytic activity of a Cu thin film deposited on a positive and negative polar ferroelectric surface Chem. Phys. Lett. 160 118 1989 . Y. Inoue and Y. Watanabe Catalysis Today 16 487 1993 . N. Saito Y. Yukawa and Y. Inoue J. Phys. Chem. B 106 10179 2002 . T. Yamamoto M. Okubo K. Hayakawa and K. Kitaura Towards ideal NOx control technology using a plasma chemical hybrid process IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications 337 1492 2001 . S. Futamura A. H. Zhang H. Einaga and H. Kabashima Involvement of catalyst materials in nonthermal plasma chemical processing of hazardous air pollutants Catalysis Today 72 259 2002 . U. Roland F. Holzer and F. D. Kopinke Improved oxidation of air pollutants in a non thermal plasma Catalysis Today 73 315 2002 . H. Kabashima H. Einaga and S. Futamura Hydrogen generation from water methane and methanol with nonthermal plasma IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications 39 340 2003 . A. Rousseau O. Guaitella J. Ropcke L. V. Gatilova and Y. A. Tolmachev Combination of a pulsed microwave plasma with a catalyst for acetylene oxidation Appl. Phys. Lett. 85 2199 2004 . F. Holzer F. D. Kopinke and U. Roland Influence of ferroelectric materials and catalysts on the performance of non thermal plasma NTP for the removal of air pollutants Plasma Chem. and Plasma Processing 25 595 2005 .

A number of suitable tunable catalysts can be fabricated using any of a variety of processes. For example many methods used for making epitaxial materials can be used. Suitable methods can be adapted from the techniques described in the following references Jung et al. Appl. Phys. Lett. 86 252901 2005 . S. Kim et al. J. Vac. Sci. Technol. A 13 95 1995 . A. S. Sidorkin et al. Phys. of the Solid State 46 1906 2004 . G. F. Huang and S. Berger J. Appl. Phys. 93 2855 2003 . Bao et al. Mater. Sci. and Eng. B 94 269 2002 . Wasa et al. Integrated Ferroelectrics 21 451 1998 . R. Ramesh J. Electron. Mater. 21 513 1992 . Z. Dong M. Shen and W. Cao Appl. Phys. Lett. 82 1449 2003 . Y. Gao et al. J. Mater. Res 8 145 1993 . I. Kanno Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 34 5211 1995 . A. Tzuzuki et al. J. Mater. Sci. Lett. 10 125 1995 . Y. Iijima et al Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 35 4930 1996 . C. R. Cho et al. Solution deposition and heteroepitaxial crystallization of LaNiOelectrodes for integrated ferroelectric devices Appl. Phys. Lett. 71 3013 1997 . S. M. Zanetti et al. J. Mater. Res. 13 2932 1998 . S. M. Zanetti et al. Meter. Lett. 31 173 1997 . V. Bouquet Innovative processing and synthesis of ceramic glasses and composites ceramic transactions Vol. 85 the Am. Ceram. Soc. Inc Westerville Ohio p. 333 1998 . Harjuoja J. et al. Atomic layer deposition of PbZrO3 thin films. APPLIED SURFACE SCIENCE 253 12 5228 5232 2007 Hwang G W et al. Atomic layer deposition and electrical properties of PbTiO3 thin films using metallorganic precursors and H2O JOURNAL OF THE ELECTROCHEMICAL SOCIETY 154 3 G69 G76 2007 Shin S et al. Fabrication of 3 dimensional PbZr1 xTixO3 nanoscale thin film capacitors for high density ferroelectric random access memory devices JOURNAL OF NANOSCIENCE AND NANOTECHNOLOGY 6 11 3333 3337 2006 . Vehkamaki M et al. Atomic layer deposition of ferroelectric bismuth titanate Bi4Ti3O12 thin films CHEMISTRY OF MATERIALS 18 16 3883 3888 2006 .

A number of suitable methods for monolayer deposition of metals and atomic layer deposition for example for use in depositing catalytically active materials on the ferroelectric substrates can be suitably adapted from the following references S. R. Brankovic et al Surface science 474 L173 2001 . B. S. Lim A. Rahtu R. G. Gordon Atomic layer deposition of transition metals Nature Materials 2 749 2003 . Z. Li A. Rahtu R. G. Gorden J. of the Electrochemical Society 153 C787 2006 . H. Kim Atomic layer deposition of metal and nitride thin films Current research efforts and applications for semiconductor device processing J. Vac. Sci. and Tech. B 21 2231 2003 .

A number of methods for fabricating ferroelectrics are also provided in the following U.S. Pat. No. 5 028 455 Miller et al. Jul. 2 1991 Method for preparing plzt pzt and plt sol gels and fabricating ferroelectric thin films. U.S. Pat. No. 4 792 463 Okada et al. Dec. 20 1988 Method of producing ferroelectric thin film. U.S. Pat. No. 4 514 441 Alexander Apr. 30 1985 Dielectric materials. U.S. Pat. No. 3 728 694 Rohrer Apr. 17 1973 Thin film ferroelectric device. U.S. Pat. No. 4 477 401 Hagemann et al. Oct. 16 1984 Method of manufacturing a dielectric. U.S. Pat. No. 4 963 390 Lipeles et al. Oct. 16 1990 Metallo organic solution deposition MOSD of transparent crystalline ferroelectric films. U.S. Pat. No. 5 453 294 Ogi et al. Sep. 26 1995 Method of controlling crystal orientation of PZT and PLZT thin films on platinum substrates. U.S. Pat. No. 6 146 935 Park et al. Nov. 14 2000 Method for forming capacitor of semiconductor device using pre bake. U.S. Pat. No. 6 342 177 Kitaoka Jan. 29 2002 Method for production of metal oxide thin film. U.S. Pat. No. 6 376 090 Kijima Apr. 23 2002 Method for manufacturing a substrate with an oxide ferroelectric thin film formed thereon and a substrate with an oxide ferroelectric thin film formed thereon.

Suitable ferroelectric substrates have a thickness of at least one unit cell of a ferroelectric single crystal or ceramic. Suitable ferroelectric substrates can have a thickness of at least two unit cells of a ferroelectric single crystal or ceramic. Ferroelectric substrates can have a thickness of at least about 0.1 nanometer at least or up to about 1 nm at least or up to about 2 nm at least or up to about 5 nm at least or up to about 10 nm at least or up to about 20 nm at least or up to about 50 nm at least or up to about 100 nm at least or up to about 200 nm at least or up to about 500 nm at least or up to about 1 micron at least or up to about 2 micron at least or up to about 5 micron at least or up to about 10 micron or even at least or up to about 100 micron.

Suitable electrodes comprise a metal a metallic oxide or any combination thereof. Suitable electrode metals comprise Al Cu Au Ag Pt Ti In Sn Sr La or any combination thereof. In some embodiments the lattice constant of the electrode suitably matches the lattice constant of the ferroelectric. In other embodiments the lattice constant of the electrode does not need to match the lattice constant of the ferroelectric. Suitable metallic oxides comprise indium tin oxide SrTiO SrRuO or any combination thereof. Suitable conductive electrodes can be a doped semiconductor. Additional conductive metallic oxides materials suitable for use in the electrodes are provided in Conductive Metal Oxide Films for Photovoltaic Cells or Flat Panel Displays U.S. Pat. No. 5 990 416 to Windisch Jr. et al. Nov. 23 1999 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein. Suitable electrodes can have a thickness of at least about 0.1 nanometer at least or up to about 1 nm at least or up to about 2 nm at least or up to about 5 nm at least or up to about 10 nm at least or up to about 20 nm at least or up to about 50 nm at least or up to about 100 nm at least or up to about 200 nm at least or up to about 500 nm at least or up to about 1 micron at least or up to about 2 micron at least or up to about 5 micron at least or up to about 10 micron at least or up to about 100 micron or even at least or up to about 100 microns.

Suitable catalytically active materials comprise one monolayer of the metal or one unit cell of the metallic oxide. Catalytically active materials can consist essentially of one monolayer of the metal or one unit cell of the metallic oxide. Alternatively suitable catalytically active materials can comprise two monolayers of the metal or two unit cells of the metallic oxide. The catalytically active material may also consist essentially of two monolayers of the metal or two unit cells of the metallic oxide. Suitable catalytically active materials comprise a transition metal or any other elemental metal alloy or both that can be deposited grown or both as a film a nanoparticle or both on the ferroelectric substrate. The catalytically active materials may comprise one or more of chemical elements 21 to 30 39 to 48 71 to 80 or any combination thereof. Particularly preferred catalytically active materials include Pt Pd Rh Ru Fe Ni V Ti Al or any combination thereof.

Other suitable oxide supported catalytically active materials that can be used in the methods and tunable catalysts of the present invention are described further in the following references M. Valden X. Lai and D. W. Goodman Science 281 1657 1998 . M. Haruta Catal. Today 36 153 1997 . U. Heiz and E. L. Bullock J. Mater. Chem. 14 564 2004 . K. Okumura T. Kobayashi H. Tanaka and M. Niwa Appl. Catal. B 44 325 2003 S. Ichikawa T. Akita M. Okumura M. Haruta K. Tanaka and M. Kohyama Journal of Electron Microscopy 52 21 2003 . A. M. Doyle S. K. Shaikutdinov S. D. Jackson and H. J. Freund Angew Chem. Int. Ed. 42 5240 03 . J. R. B. Gomes F. Illas N. C. Hern ndez A. M rquez and J. F. Sanz Phys. Rev. B 65 125414 2002 . L. M. Molina and B. Hammer Phys. Rev. Lett 90 206102 2003 . V. R. Cooper A. M. Kolpak Y. Yourdshahyan and A. M. Rappe Phys. Rev. B 72 081409 2005 .

Suitable controllable electric fields can be provided by applying an electrical potential between the electrode and the catalytically active material by applying a varying or transient magnetic field between the electrode and the catalytically active material by applying electro magnetic radiation to the ferroelectric substrate by applying ionizing radiation to the ferroelectric substrate by AFM switching by a scanning probe technique or any combination thereof. More suitably the controllable electric fields can be provided by sandwiching the ferroelectric between two electrodes and applying a voltage between the two electrodes. Additionally electric fields can be applied in the methods and tunable catalysts of the present invention by suitably adapting the techniques described in any of the following references J. H. Block H. J. Kreuzer and L. C. Wang Electrostatic field effects in surface reactivity Adsorption dissociation and catalytic reaction of nitric oxide Surf. Sci. 246 125 1991 . S. A. Wasileski M. J. Weaver M. T. M. Koper Potential dependent chemisorption of carbon monoxide on platinum electrodes new insight from quantum chemical calculations combined with vibrational spectroscopy J. Electroanalytical Chem. 500 344 2001 . M. P. Hyman and J. W. Medlin Theoretical study of the adsorption and dissociation of Oxygen on Pt 111 in the presence of homogeneous electric fields J. Phys. Chem. B 109 6304 2005 . C. K. Kim W. P. Kang Y. H. Kim N. I. Cho Electric field induced adsorption desorption of Oxygen on a Pd SnOx Si3N4 SiO2 Si Al capacitor Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 37 L255 1998 . G. Pacchioni J. R. Lomas F. Illas Electric field effects in heterogeneous catalysis J. Molec. Catal. A 119 263 1997 . C. G. Vayenas S. Bebelis S. Ladas Nature 343 625 1990 . C. G. Vayenas S. Bebelis I. V. Yentekakis H. G. Lintz Ctal. Today 11 303 1992 . S. Neophytides and C. G. Vayenas J. Phys. Chem. 99 17063 1995 .

Tunable catalysts as provided herein can be used in catalytic converters fuel cells Fischer Tropsch synthesis hydrogenation oxidation combustion synthesis of methanol nitric acid sulfuric acid ammonia or hydrogen petroleum refining processing alkylation catalytic cracking naphtha reforming steam reforming for synthesis gas production transesterification olefin polymerization non olefin polymerization electrolysis of water dissociation of ammonia reduction of nitrogen oxides to elemental nitrogen epoxidation or any combination thereof. Accordingly the one or more chemical species may comprise a proton a deuteron an atom an atomic ion other than a proton a molecule a molecular ion or any isotope or combination thereof. Any of number of products can be made according to the catalytic processes described herein. Suitable atoms or atomic ions can be characterized as having an atomic number in the range of from 2 to 92. In certain embodiments it is desired that the chemical species include hydrogen carbon oxygen nitrogen sulfur or any isotope or combination thereof. Suitable molecules or molecular ions can comprise at least one atom characterized as having an atomic number in the range of from 2 to 92.

It should also be noted that certain embodiments of the methods of controlling catalyst activity do not necessarily require an electrode. Accordingly methods of controlling the activity of a catalyst can include providing a catalyst comprising a ferroelectric substrate of finite thickness the ferroelectric substrate being characterized as having a polarization and a catalytically active material surmounting the surface of the ferroelectric substrate and subjecting the ferroelectric substrate to a controllable electric field to give rise to a modulation of the polarization of the ferroelectric substrate whereby the modulation of the polarization controllably alters the activity of one or more chemical species on the catalytically active material. Other aspects of the present invention provide products made by these methods.

A variety of tunable catalysts have been described herein above. Suitable catalysts include a ferroelectric substrate of finite thickness comprising two opposing surfaces the ferroelectric substrate being characterized as having a polarization an electrode surmounting one of the surfaces of the ferroelectric substrate and a catalytically active material surmounting the surface of the ferroelectric substrate opposing the electrode wherein the electrode and the catalytically active thin film are capable of subjecting the ferroelectric substrate to a controllable electric field to modulate the polarization of the ferroelectric substrate whereby the modulation of the polarization is capable of controllably altering the activity of one or more chemical species on the catalytically active material. Additional suitable features and aspects of the tunable catalysts are further described above.

The present invention also provides for variations in the tunable catalyst as described herein. Any one or more of the materials described herein such as the electrode the ferroelectric substrate or the catalytically active material may be morphologically characterized as taking the shape of a slab a perforated slab a fiber a particle a shell a cylinder a rod a prism a sphere a hemisphere or any combination thereof e.g. a hemispherical shell. For example tunable catalysts may comprise a ferroelectric particle made with an electrode and a catalytically active material opposing each other on opposing sides e.g. opposing hemispheres of the ferroelectric particle such as a sphere of PbTiOwith the one hemisphere coated with Pt and the other hemisphere coated with Al with the equator uncovered by either Pt or Al. In a further modification of this embodiment all the Pt parts of many such particles are fused and in electrical contact as are the Al parts. Accordingly the use of the phrase two opposing surfaces is intended to be expanded beyond slabs to cover the variety of shapes for example the Al side and Pt side of each particle.

Other aspects of the invention provide tunable catalysts that do not necessarily require an electrode. These tunable catalysts include a ferroelectric substrate of finite thickness the ferroelectric substrate being characterized as having a polarization and a catalytically active material surmounting the surface of the ferroelectric substrate wherein the ferroelectric substrate is capable of being subjected to a controllable electric field to modulate the polarization of the ferroelectric substrate whereby the modulation of the polarization is capable of controllably altering the activity of one or more chemical species on the catalytically active material. Products made using the tunable catalysts are further aspects of the present invention.

Ferroelectric oxides are excellent support materials offering dynamical control of surface structure and reactivity with a wide range of available behavior in a single system. Ferroelectric materials have a spontaneous bulk polarization in the absence of an external field and both the magnitude and the direction of the polarization can be changed by the application of an electric field. In addition changes in polarization are accompanied by structural and chemical changes at the oxide metal interface resulting in a rich dependence of interfacial interactions on the oxide polarization. Ferroelectric oxide supports greatly enhance the range of tunable parameters and enable external control of catalytic activity in real time.

The following are non limiting examples that are representative only and that do not necessarily restrict the scope of the present invention.

A new paradigm of dynamical control of surface structure and reactivity can be illustrated using density functional theory calculations of the adsorption of molecules and atoms to the surface of ultrathin Pt 100 films supported on ferroelectric perovskite substrates such as PbTiO. Reorienting the polarization direction of the substrate dramatically changes the chemisorption energies of CO O C and N and alters the reaction pathways for dissociation of CO O N and NO. Controlling the structural and electronic effects of a polarized substrate on the metal surface gives rise to tunable catalysis.

Density functional theory DFT was used to systematically investigate the effects of catalytic systems including a ferroelectric substrate on the electronic properties of a metal surface. One example of a suitable catalytic system includes studying ultrathin Pt films supported on a PbTiO 100 substrate. The chemisorption behavior of CO C O and N to the Pt surface as a function of Pt film thickness on two different PbTiO 100 surfaces were examined to show that switching from positive to negative polarization results in dramatic changes in chemisorption strength and site preference particularly on monolayer thick Pt films. In addition trends in the dissociative chemisorption of CO O NO and Nwere estimated as a function of polarization direction and Pt thickness. The electronic structure responsible for these effects can also be changed which demonstrates that similar effects are also expected in other metals.

All DFT calculations were performed with the generalized gradient approximationas implemented in the ab initio code DACAPO http dcwww.camp.dtu.dk campos Dacapo . The structures were composed of two unit cell thick PbTiO 100 films sandwiched between Pt 100 electrodes to form two PbO Pt or TiO Pt interfaces as illustrated for PbO Pt in . The interfacial Pt atoms were bound in the energetically favored registry above the surface Pb and O ions in the former and above the surface oxygens in the latter. The structural and electronic properties of the interfaces were determined to be independent of the PbTiOfilm thickness as shown in consequently the system models the behavior of Pt films supported on substrates ranging from ultrathin to thick PbTiOfilms. A slab geometry with periodic boundary conditions was used with the in plane lattice constant fixed to the theoretical PbTiOvalue of 3.86 to model epitaxial growth on a SrTiOsubstrate upon which Pt 100 films have been successfully grown SrTiOis a common experimental substrate which is lattice matched to ferroelectric PbTiO . Slabs were separated by more than 20 in the direction perpendicular to the surface and a dipole correction was applied in the center of the vacuum to remove artificial fields. All structures with and without adsorbates were relaxed completely until the force on each atom was less than 0.01 eV . The films remained ferroelectric with polarization perpendicular to the ferroelectric metal interface and cation anion displacements of 80 90 of the computed bulk values.

The effects of the polarization on molecular and atomic chemisorption energies on the Pt surface were dramatic as shown in . Similar results were observed for both PbO and TiO terminated supports but are focused here on PbO Pt for brevity. For CO C O and N switching the PbTiOpolarization from P to P induces changes of about 0.4 to about 0.6 eV in the chemisorption energy on a monolayer thick Pt film. As the Pt film thickness is increased the changes in chemisorption energy with respect to Pt 100 become less dramatic but remain significantly greater than the error bar of 0.01 eV in the DFT calculations. As demonstrates the effects of the substrate polarization extend over a length scale greater than the screening length of Pt 0.5 indicating the importance of polarization induced changes in atomic structure and chemical bonding in addition to the polarization charge. Surprisingly the adsorption behavior does not vary monotonically with respect to film thickness but oscillates relative to Pt 100 values with opposite phases for the P and P interfaces suggesting Friedel oscillations in the metal screening.

The oxide substrate polarization also has a significant effect on adsorption site preference energies. While the site preference energies converge to the unsupported Pt 100 values more quickly than the chemisorption energies the changes were quite dramatic on a single layer Pt film . For instance CO chemisorption is equally strong on the top and bridge sites on unsupported Pt 100 but an underlying P interface induces a 0.55 eV bridge site preference. Flipping the polarization direction destabilizes adsorption at the bridge site resulting in a top site preference of 0.23 eV above the P interface.

Such changes in molecular potential energy surfaces on the Pt film can have a large effect on reaction kinetics. Catalytic reactions with diatomic reactants can be modeled as two successive processes dissociative chemisorption followed by associative desorption. If chemisorption is too favorable then all the sites become covered with one reactant blocking out the other. If it is not favorable enough then the paucity of reactant slows the reaction. This makes the overall rate of a surface catalytic process sensitive to the dissociative chemisorption energy. Therefore the plot of reaction rate versus dissociative chemisorption energy is sharply peaked and is known as a volcano curve. When dissociative chemisorption of the diatomic molecule is the rate determining step it can be shown that the peak of the volcano occurs when the free energy A 0 or E T S where T is the temperature and S is the entropy lost during the dissociative chemisorption. This provides a simple criterion for optimizing the reaction rate over a given catalyst such as by selecting the optimal T for a particular reaction. Accordingly tuning Eby controlling the ferroelectric substrate polarization enables the optimization of reaction rates for a wide range of desired temperature and pressure conditions.

Controlling the dissociative chemisorption energies for CO NO O and Non PbTiO Pt was investigated by tuning the polarization and Pt film thickness. As the data in Table I show the magnitude of Edepends strongly on the direction of the PbTiOpolarization changing significantly both with respect to the oppositely polarized surface and the unsupported Pt 100 film. More importantly Table I demonstrates that the presence of the polarized substrate can shift the dissociative adsorption energy significantly closer to the optimal range. For instance the dissociative chemisorption energy for Non Pt 100 is large and positive 1.60 eV unfavorable . Supporting the Pt on P TiO terminated PbTiOreduces Eto 0.74 eV but switching the polarization direction to P results in a negative 0.12 eV favorable E near the optimum for this reaction. This effect can greatly accelerate the conversion of Nand Hinto ammonia since Ndissociation is the rate determining step.

With CO dissociative chemisorption on a supported monolayer of Pt the polarization direction of the substrate has the opposite effect At the surface of both Pt 100 and Pt on P PbO and TiO terminated PbTiO CO dissociative chemisorption is unfavorable but becomes favorable for a negative TiO terminated substrate polarization. The catalyst Pt on P TiO terminated PbTiOcan be used in synthetic fuel production via Fischer Tropsch synthesis in which CO dissociation is the rate determining stepin the formation of liquid hydrocarbons from Hand CO. The difference between polarization dependences of CO and NEcan be explained by the interaction of the preferred binding sites of the constituent atoms with the substrate polarization as discussed below.

Conversely changing the substrate polarization can shift Eaway from the optimal range preventing or inhibiting dissociation below a certain temperature. Based on the kinetic model described above the changes in optimal reaction temperature due to polarization switching were computed according to the methods described in reference 22 to illustrate this effect. For reactions involving Odissociative adsorption reversing the oxide substrate polarization leads to a 440 K shift in the optimal reaction temperature over one monolayer of Pt. This is due to the large difference in OEbetween the positively and negatively polarized substrates Table I . Such an effect may be desirable for inhibiting corrosion and limiting catalyst degradation due to surface oxidation of the reactive metal.

Changes in chemisorption energy and Eare strongly correlated with site preference and PbTiOsubstrate polarization. For simplicity we concentrate on monolayer results. show that adsorption on the P surface is more favorable for the C and N atoms while O strongly prefers P. Because the preference of O for P is the strongest O containing CO O and NO all have lower Eon the P PbO Pt interface while Ndissociates most readily over the P surface Table D. also show that C and N atoms prefer hollow site adsorption while the O atom favors the bridge site. This suggests that the P surface enhances Eif one or more of the constituent atoms preferentially adsorbs at a top or bridge site. On the other hand the P surface lowers the dissociative chemisorption energy when both atoms of the dissociated molecule adsorb at hollow sites.

Without being bound by any theory of operation these trends can be understood by considering the effects of substrate polarization on the Pt d band density of states DOS . The dand dPt orbitals participate in bonding at the bridge site while the dxz yz contribution dominates for the hollow site. The DOS for a monolayer thick Pt film shows a large increase in unfilled dstates at the P surface. This appears to be due to Pt dcovalent bonding with O pat the P interface which results in a low energy bonding state around 5 eV and an unfilled anti bonding state.This covalent interaction can be seen clearly in as well. The increased availability of empty states induced by these interfacial interactions strengthens top or bridge site chemisorption. By contrast there are almost no free dstates near the Fermi level for the P surface. This weakens P bridge site adsorbate metal bonding and makes O adsorption much stronger on P than on P. also shows that the dorbitals shift upwards on the P substrate forming a large peak and increasing the availability of states just below the Fermi level and thereby enhancing hollow site back bonding to adsorbates. In contrast the peak in the dorbitals shifts away from the Fermi level on the P substrate decreasing the number of states available for back bonding. Consequently the P substrate is favored over the P substrate for hollow site C and N adsorption.

The results described herein have demonstrated the ability to significantly alter the surface electronic structure and catalytic activity of a metal thin film by switching the polarization of an underlying ferroelectric oxide. These alterations appear to arise from a combination of polarization chemical and structural changes and that these changes influence the metal surface properties to a distance of almost 1 nm away from the oxide surface. Furthermore the analysis of the electronic structure suggests that these phenomena are not limited to Pt films but should be observable for a range of ferroelectric transition metal systems. These results indicate that the reactivity and selectivity of catalysts can be tuned in real time by applying electric fields to ferroelectric oxide supported films. Experimental studies have shown that the magnitude of the electric field required to flip the polarization the coercive field in PbTiOfilms with Pt electrodes is within an experimentally feasible range. Based on the similar trends observed for TiO and PbO terminated substrates other ferroelectric materials with smaller coercive fields such as Pb Zr Ti Oand BaTiO are expected to behave similarly providing further opportunities to optimize ferroelectric supported metal catalyst systems for various applications.

Based on the description of the embodiments of the invention it can be appreciated that this invention is not limited to the particular embodiments disclosed but it is intended to cover modifications that are within the spirit and scope of the invention.

