---

title: Computer enabled training of a user to validate assumptions
abstract: A system, method and article of manufacture are disclosed which implement a training session for training a user to validate assumptions. First, a plurality of stimuli are presented to a user in the context of a simulation. The user is then prompted to enter responses to the stimuli which are subsequently recorded. The user is then allowed to enter assumptions that form a basis of the responses. Next, the user is prompted to enter information on how to validate the assumptions which is subsequently received. Feedback is then outputted based on the stimuli and responses. Such feedback relates to appropriate assumptions and information on how to validate the appropriate assumptions. As an option, the feedback may be further based on a number of assumptions entered.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07621748&OS=07621748&RS=07621748
owner: Accenture Global Services GmbH
number: 07621748
owner_city: 
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20070516
---
This application is a continuation of pending U.S. application Ser. No. 11 258 746 filed on Oct. 26 2005 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 806 983 filed on Mar. 23 2004 and granted as U.S. Pat. No. 6 962 495. U.S. application Ser. No. 10 806 983 is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 935 348 filed on Aug. 22 2001 and granted as U.S. Pat. No. 6 736 642. U.S. application Ser. No. 09 935 348 is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 387 618 filed on Aug. 31 1999 now abandoned. U.S. application Ser. No. 09 387 618 is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 386 895 filed on Aug. 31 1999 now abandoned. U.S. application Ser. No. 09 386 895 is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 387 193 filed on Aug. 31 1999 now abandoned. U.S. application Ser. No. 09 387 193 is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 387 748 filed Aug. 31 1999 now abandoned. The entire disclosures and contents of these applications are incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to training software and more particularly to training a user to validate assumptions on which his or her decisions are based.

The behaviors assumptions and attitudes of police officers are strongly influenced by the overall culture of the service. The police service culture has been established and reinforced over many years. Police officers naturally tend to tolerate and conform to the behaviors assumptions and attitudes common to the culture. They may find they are most effective as police officers if they behave in the way the culture demands or they may feel they have to do so in order to fit in and feel comfortable around fellow officers. They may not believe themselves to be acting or thinking in accord with any culture and the actions in question may not be overt conscious or deliberate. That is the nature and influence of an organization s culture and the way it is shared amongst the organization s members.

This is not unique to police service. Most public institutions and likewise private sector firms develop a culture of their own with prevailing behaviors assumptions attitudes and vocabulary amongst their employees. Such a culture can be a positive strength. It can attract people to join and stay with an organization and it can help people work well together in performing the organization s business.

Efforts to change the weaknesses in a culture must not destroy the strengths that help give an organization its effectiveness. But a culture has a problem when some of its consequences come to be judged unacceptable. For the police service that public judgment has been reached and is acknowledged by senior officers and officials.

The common thread of unacceptability is a police service culture with behaviors assumptions and attitudes that fail to accommodate the differences between individuals or worse that are based on stereotypes of race sex age or dress. It has been stated that it was not enough for police officers to be fair and to avoid acting on stereotypes by treating everyone the same. Instead the challenge is to treat everybody as individuals.

Whilst the nature of policing is unique this challenge of individualizing the treatment of all members of the public is not unique to the police service. It is one that is shared by many other public servants by tax inspectors employment and benefits advisers fraud investigators and all others who must offer public services to people with individual needs and circumstances and must do so with equity.

For police and other public services changing behavior towards individuals requires awareness of diversity amongst members of the public. But awareness of diversity does not produce change without the breaking down of old habits of behavior and action and without the acquisition of new skills including 

These skills and behaviors are not easy for anyone to acquire and it must also become a new habit for officers to apply them in both routine and exceptional circumstances on duty. Achieving this re skilling and breaking down of old habits is at the heart of the challenge at hand.

It is a challenge similar to the one faced by many private sector companies seeking to win and retain consumer business. The nature of the diversity that needs to be recognized by a business may be different and simpler than that which the police service must recognize. The opportunity may exist for businesses to decide to ignore some apparently unprofitable individuals a moral luxury police service cannot have. And for the private sector the consequences of failure to individualize treatment are seldom matters of life death or basic human dignity for the individual concerned. At the center of individualized treatment is the awareness and validation of assumptions which may tend to cause the treatment of people in a generalized manner.

A system method and article of manufacture are disclosed which implement a training session for training a user to validate assumptions. First a plurality stimuli are presented to a user in the context of a simulation. The user is then prompted to enter responses to the stimuli which are subsequently recorded. The user is then allowed to enter assumptions that form a basis of the responses. Next the user is prompted to enter information on how to validate the assumptions which is subsequently received. Feedback is then outputted based on the stimuli and responses. Such feedback relates to appropriate assumptions and information on how to validate the appropriate assumptions. As an option the feedback may be further based on a number of assumptions entered.

In one embodiment the stimuli may include a prerecorded audio clip a prerecorded video clip an animation a graphic a text presentation a real time audio stream and or a real time video stream. Further the user may be automatically prompted to enter the assumptions that form the basis of the responses and the information on how to validate the assumptions.

In another embodiment of the present invention the simulation may include a police call regarding a situation with the stimuli including images of at least one person in the situation. Further the responses may include questions for the person in order to collect evidence pertinent to the situation. The user may be prompted to enter the responses to the stimuli by listing a plurality of responses and allowing the user to select between the listed responses.

As one aspect of the present invention the stimuli and the responses are displayed after the receipt thereof in the form of a transcript during the course of the simulation. Similarly the assumptions and the information on how to validate the assumptions may be displayed after the receipt thereof during the course of the simulation.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the present invention a system is provided for making a user or student aware of assumptions being made in various environments. In addition the user may be trained on validating such assumptions of which he or she is aware. Such assumption awareness and validation is then reinforced by reversing the role of the user from a trainee to a trainer. This is all accomplished via a unique method of interaction that is facilitated by multiple user interfaces.

A representative hardware environment of a preferred embodiment of the present invention is depicted in which illustrates a typical hardware configuration of a workstation having a central processing unit such as a microprocessor and a number of other units interconnected via a system bus . The workstation shown in includes Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM an I O adapter for connecting peripheral devices such as disk storage units to the bus a user interface adapter for connecting a keyboard a mouse a speaker a microphone and or other user interface devices such as a touch screen not shown to the bus communication adapter for connecting the workstation to a communication network e.g. a data processing network WAN LAN Internet and a display adapter for connecting the bus to a display device . The workstation typically has resident thereon an operating system such as the Microsoft Windows NT or Windows 95 Operating System OS the IBM OS 2 operating system the MAC OS or UNIX operating system.

Object oriented programming OOP has become increasingly used to develop complex applications. As OOP moves toward the mainstream of software design and development various software solutions require adaptation to make use of the benefits of OOP. A need exists for the principles of OOP to be applied to a messaging interface of an electronic messaging system such that a set of OOP classes and objects for the messaging interface can be provided.

OOP is a process of developing computer software using objects including the steps of analyzing the problem designing the system and constructing the program. An object is a software package that contains both data and a collection of related structures and procedures. Since it contains both data and a collection of structures and procedures it can be visualized as a self sufficient component that does not require other additional structures procedures or data to perform its specific task. OOP therefore views a computer program as a collection of largely autonomous components called objects each of which is responsible for a specific task. This concept of packaging data structures and procedures together in one component or module is called encapsulation.

In general OOP components are reusable software modules which present an interface that conforms to an object model and which are accessed at run time through a component integration architecture. A component integration architecture is a set of architecture mechanisms which allow software modules in different process spaces to utilize each other s capabilities or functions. This is generally done by assuming a common component object model on which to build the architecture. It is worthwhile to differentiate between an object and a class of objects at this point. An object is a single instance of the class of objects which is often just called a class. A class of objects can be viewed as a blueprint from which many objects can be formed.

OOP allows the programmer to create an object that is a part of another object. For example the object representing a piston engine is said to have a composition relationship with the object representing a piston. In reality a piston engine comprises a piston valves and many other components the fact that a piston is an element of a piston engine can be logically and semantically represented in OOP by two objects.

OOP also allows creation of an object that depends from another object. If there are two objects one representing a piston engine and the other representing a piston engine wherein the piston is made of ceramic then the relationship between the two objects is not that of composition. A ceramic piston engine does not make up a piston engine. Rather it is merely one kind of piston engine that has one more limitation than the piston engine its piston is made of ceramic. In this case the object representing the ceramic piston engine is called a derived object and it inherits all of the aspects of the object representing the piston engine and adds further limitation or detail to it. The object representing the ceramic piston engine depends from the object representing the piston engine. The relationship between these objects is called inheritance.

When the object or class representing the ceramic piston engine inherits all of the aspects of the objects representing the piston engine it inherits the thermal characteristics of a standard piston defined in the piston engine class. However the ceramic piston engine object overrides these ceramic specific thermal characteristics which are typically different from those associated with a metal piston. It skips over the original and uses new functions related to ceramic pistons. Different kinds of piston engines have different characteristics but may have the same underlying functions associated with them e.g. how many pistons in the engine ignition sequences lubrication etc. . To access each of these functions in any piston engine object a programmer would call the same functions with the same names but each type of piston engine may have different overriding implementations of functions behind the same name. This ability to hide different implementations of a function behind the same name is called polymorphism and it greatly simplifies communication among objects.

With the concepts of composition relationship encapsulation inheritance and polymorphism an object can represent just about anything in the real world. In fact the logical perception of the reality is the only limit on determining the kinds of things that can become objects in object oriented software. Some typical categories are as follows 

With this enormous capability of an object to represent just about any logically separable matters OOP allows the software developer to design and implement a computer program that is a model of some aspects of reality whether that reality is a physical entity a process a system or a composition of matter. Since the object can represent anything the software developer can create an object which can be used as a component in a larger software project in the future.

If 90 of a new OOP software program consists of proven existing components made from preexisting reusable objects then only the remaining 10 of the new software project has to be written and tested from scratch. Since 90 already came from an inventory of extensively tested reusable objects the potential domain from which an error could originate is 10 of the program. As a result OOP enables software developers to build objects out of other previously built objects.

This process closely resembles complex machinery being built out of assemblies and sub assemblies. OOP technology therefore makes software engineering more like hardware engineering in that software is built from existing components which are available to the developer as objects. All this adds up to an improved quality of the software as well as an increase in the speed of its development.

Programming languages are beginning to fully support the OOP principles such as encapsulation inheritance polymorphism and composition relationship. With the advent of the C language many commercial software developers have embraced OOP. C is an OOP language that offers a fast machine executable code. Furthermore C is suitable for both commercial application and systems programming projects. For now C appears to be the most popular choice among many OOP programmers but there is a host of other OOP languages such as Smalltalk Common Lisp Object System CLOS and Eiffel. Additionally OOP capabilities are being added to more traditional popular computer programming languages such as Pascal.

Class libraries are very flexible. As programs grow more complex more programmers are forced to reinvent basic solutions to basic problems over and over again. A relatively new extension of the class library concept is to have a framework of class libraries. This framework is more complex and consists of significant collections of collaborating classes that capture both the small scale patterns and major mechanisms that implement the common requirements and design in a specific application domain. They were first developed to free application programmers from the chores involved in displaying menus windows dialog boxes and other standard user interface elements for personal computers.

Frameworks also represent a change in the way programmers think about the interaction between the code they write and code written by others. In the early days of procedural programming the programmer called libraries provided by the operating system to perform certain tasks but basically the program executed down the page from start to finish and the programmer was solely responsible for the flow of control. This was appropriate for printing out paychecks calculating a mathematical table or solving other problems with a program that executed in just one way.

The development of graphical user interfaces began to turn this procedural programming arrangement inside out. These interfaces allow the user rather than program logic to drive the program and decide when certain actions should be performed. Today most personal computer software accomplishes this by means of an event loop which monitors the mouse keyboard and other sources of external events and calls the appropriate parts of the programmer s code according to actions that the user performs. The programmer no longer determines the order in which events occur. Instead a program is divided into separate pieces that are called at unpredictable times and in an unpredictable order. By relinquishing control in this way to users the developer creates a program that is much easier to use.

Nevertheless individual pieces of the program written by the developer still call libraries provided by the operating system to accomplish certain tasks and the programmer must still determine the flow of control within each piece after it s called by the event loop. Application code still sits on top of the system.

Even event loop programs require programmers to write a lot of code that should not need to be written separately for every application. The concept of an application framework carries the event loop concept further. Instead of dealing with all the nuts and bolts of constructing basic menus windows and dialog boxes and then making all these things work together programmers using application frameworks start with working application code and basic user interface elements in place. Subsequently they build from there by replacing some of the generic capabilities of the framework with the specific capabilities of the intended application.

Application frameworks reduce the total amount of code that a programmer has to write from scratch. However because the framework is really a generic application that displays windows supports copy and paste and so on the programmer can also relinquish control to a greater degree than event loop programs permit. The framework code takes care of almost all event handling and flow of control and the programmer s code is called only when the framework needs it e.g. to create or manipulate a proprietary data structure .

A programmer writing a framework program not only relinquishes control to the user as is also true for event loop programs but also relinquishes the detailed flow of control within the program to the framework. This approach allows the creation of more complex systems that work together in interesting ways as opposed to isolated programs having custom code being created over and over again for similar problems.

Thus as is explained above a framework basically is a collection of cooperating classes that make up a reusable design solution for a given problem domain. It typically includes objects that provide default behavior e.g. for menus and windows and programmers use it by inheriting some of that default behavior and overriding other behavior so that the framework calls application code at the appropriate times.

Thus through the development of frameworks for solutions to various problems and programming tasks significant reductions in the design and development effort for software can be achieved. A preferred embodiment of the invention utilizes HyperText Markup Language HTML to implement documents on the Internet together with a general purpose secure communication protocol for a transport medium between the client and a company. HTTP or other protocols could be readily substituted for HTML without undue experimentation. Information on these products is available in T. Bemers Lee D. Connoly RFC 1866 Hypertext Markup Language 2.0 November 1995 and R. Fielding H Frystyk T. Berners Lee J. Gettys and J. C. Mogul Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP 1.1 HTTP Working Group Internet Draft May 2 1996 . HTML is a simple data format used to create hypertext documents that are portable from one platform to another. HTML documents are SGML documents with generic semantics that are appropriate for representing information from a wide range of domains. HTML has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. HTML is an application of ISO Standard 8879 1986 Information Processing Text and Office Systems Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML .

To date Web development tools have been limited in their ability to create dynamic Web applications which span from client to server and interoperate with existing computing resources. Until recently HTML has been the dominant technology used in development of Web based solutions. However HTML has proven to be inadequate in the following areas 

With Java developers can create robust User Interface UI components. Custom widgets e.g. real time stock tickers animated icons etc. can be created and client side performance is improved. Unlike HTML Java supports the notion of client side validation offloading appropriate processing onto the client for improved performance. Dynamic real time Web pages can be created. Using the abovementioned custom UI components dynamic Web pages can also be created.

Sun s Java language has emerged as an industry recognized language for programming the Internet. Sun defines Java as a simple object oriented distributed interpreted robust secure architecture neutral portable high performance multithreaded dynamic buzzword compliant general purpose programming language. Java supports programming for the Internet in the form of platform independent Java applets. Java applets are small specialized applications that comply with Sun s Java Application Programming Interface API allowing developers to add interactive content to Web documents e.g. simple animations page adornments basic games etc. . Applets execute within a Java compatible browser e.g. Netscape Navigator by copying code from the server to client. From a language standpoint Java s core feature set is based on C . Sun s Java literature states that Java is basically C with extensions from Objective C for more dynamic method resolution. 

Another technology that provides similar function to JAVA is provided by Microsoft and ActiveX Technologies to give developers and Web designers wherewithal to build dynamic content for the Internet and personal computers. ActiveX includes tools for developing animation 3 D virtual reality video and other multimedia content. The tools use Internet standards work on multiple platforms and are being supported by over 100 companies. The group s building blocks are called ActiveX Controls which are fast components that enable developers to embed parts of software in hypertext markup language HTML pages. ActiveX Controls work with a variety of programming languages including Microsoft Visual C Borland Delphi Microsoft Visual Basic programming system and in the future Microsoft s development tool for Java code named Jakarta. ActiveX Technologies also includes ActiveX Server Framework allowing developers to create server applications. One of ordinary skill in the art readily recognizes that ActiveX could be substituted for JAVA without undue experimentation to practice the invention.

Upon execution a start up screen is displayed. As shown in three main buttons are visible including an Awareness button a Validation button and an Action button . A cursor may be moved over each button for selection purposes. Further included is an Exit button which may be clicked at anytime to shutdown the application.

In one embodiment a virtual coach playing the role of a tutor constable may introduce the learner to the training setting their goals and expectations for the training in an audible or visual manner. In accordance with the three main buttons set forth hereinabove the training afforded by the present invention is divided into three sections Awareness Validation and Action.

This section makes the learner cognizant of their behavior in this case the practice of making assumptions. In the first stage of the training the user learns that humans make assumptions all the time. The awareness section of the training is used to train the learner to become aware of the assumptions they are making

The second phase of the training shows the learner that it is important not only to be aware that they are making assumptions but that they must validate those assumptions.

The final stage in the training is comprised of 2 parts first of all the learner swaps roles and plays the role of a tutor constable coaching a virtual learner about assumption making and validation. The reason to do this is that if one refers to Bloom s Taxonomy of Educational Objectives the ultimate way to learn is to teach someone else what one have already learned.

The second stage of the action module is involved in learning alternative new behaviors for dealing with people when existing stereotypes or assumptions no longer fit.

Upon selection of the Awareness button of a computer implemented training session is initiated for identifying a user s assumptions in light of a reaction to a stimulus. Such training session is outlined in . Initially in operation a first portion of a stimulus i.e. video is presented to a user after which the user is prompted to enter a reaction to the first portion of the stimulus as indicated by operation . The user s reaction to the first portion of the stimulus is then received and recorded in operations and . Thereafter a second portion of the stimulus is presented to the user in operation . This second portion of the stimulus is presented along with feedback adapted to identify how the user s reaction was based on an assumption. Note operation . During the course of the training session the user may be provided access to a knowledge base to further achieve this goal. As an option the feedback may be provided by an interactive coach.

In one embodiment prior to presenting the second portion of the stimulus the user is further prompted to enter an assumption that forms a basis of the user s reaction to the stimulus. Then based on the assumption feedback may be provided which helps the user become aware of the affects of the assumption on the response.

The user s reaction to the stimulus may include a text entry and or a choice of presented options. Further the form of the stimulus may range from a prerecorded audio clip a prerecorded video clip an animation a graphic a text presentation a real time audio stream and or a real time video stream.

In the awareness portion of the present invention the screen first changes to show a screen shown in with a box in the center thereof. Immediately a video of a virtual coach shows the coach walking from the right hand side of the screen after which the coach starts to talk to the user. This is the learner s virtual coach it is there throughout the entire application giving feedback prompting the learner to reflect on what they are learning and setting the users expectations at each stage of the training.

The purpose of the virtual coach is to welcome the learner and explain how to use the application. The coach also explains that the learner is about to take part in a series of What happens next scenarios. To continue the user should press the continue button and watch the first video. Then they ask to decide what happens next.

The screen of includes two buttons including a home button . It should be noted that clicking on the home button at anytime returns the user to the start screen of . The buttons further include a continue button when the video of the virtual coach has ceased for continuing purposes.

The user may then click on the continue button of . As shown in upon depression a first portion of a stimulus i.e. video is displayed in the box of . As an example a video may play of a youth running towards a suited man. When the video stops playing the user is prompted to enter a reaction to the first portion of the stimulus. This may be accomplished by displaying a plurality of what happens next scenarios with respective options buttons . The user can choose i.e. click whichever option for what happens next that they believe is most appropriate.

Upon selection of one of the scenarios of the chosen option appears on the screen and a second portion of the stimulus is presented. As shown in the second portion of the stimulus may take the form of the end of the video showing the man walking into danger and the youth saving him.

Automatically a virtual psychologist appears on the screen and a voice over starts to explain assumption making is a natural process . . . for identifying how the user s reaction was based on an assumption. In particular the virtual psychologist appears to point out to that assumption making is a natural and acceptable behavior that is in use in everyday life.

Should the learner have chosen the correct assumption the virtual psychologist s feedback would have changed to start well done you chose the correct option but on the whole most people would have assumed that . . . . The training application always provides tailored feedback to the learner driven by their actions. It is important to at this point to assure the learner that they are doing nothing wrong by making assumptions. The learning point here is that people make assumptions but should also learn to confirm the assumptions that are made.

By click on the continue button additional stimuli may be presented in a manner similar to that set forth hereinabove in addition to providing guidance by a virtual consultant. For example a picture of an elderly man on a beach may appear along with a title What is an assumption At this time the virtual psychologist would point out at this time what constitutes an assumption i.e. the way a person is dressed their surroundings and personal experiences in a similar situation leads one to draw certain conclusions about a person. For example in the present picture with the elderly man on the beach it might be assumed that the elderly gentleman does not constitute any threat to us. One might have made that assumption because he is smiling and appears to be happily strolling along the beach. He may also have a walking stick so as not to be physically threatening.

By clicking on another continue button the picture may change to show a younger man on the beach. Again the virtual psychologist may state that assumptions about the situation may now have changed because the person on the beach has changed but it is still not a threatening situation.

By clicking again on another continue button the picture may change to show the same image of the young man in a different environment namely a riot scene. The virtual psychologist may then state that the assumptions that one is making about the person are completely different. One might now assume that the scene is highly dangerous and that the young man is threatening and poses a significant danger.

The foregoing process thus aids in determining what an assumption constitutes. With that the first portion of the video of or a similar video is presented to the user. When the first portion of the video stops playing what happens next scenarios and three options buttons appear similar to as before.

Again the learner can choose whichever option for what happens next that they believe is most appropriate. At this point the learner is probably automatically reflecting on what assumptions they are making and they will be aiming not be tricked into making a false assumption again.

To further enhance learning the language you expected and the chosen option then appear on screen. Thereafter the virtual coach appears and a text box based on what assumptions appears prompting the learner to type in the assumptions that they made in order to choose the option they did. In this section of the training the purpose is to start to elevate assumption making to the meta cognitive level i.e. learner has started to think about the assumptions they are making.

Upon entry of the assumptions by the user the text Based on the assumption that and the free text typed appears on screen. In summary beneath the display while depicting the second portion of the video the text You expected selected option based on entered assumption and this happened description of second portion of video is depicted. With this textual description the user is made aware of the existence of assumptions in his or her decision making. It should be noted that the present embodiment is not limited to a video having two portions but rather may be a video with multiple breaks which are handled in a similar manner.

Next if the example of the youth that saves the man is used the psychologist appears again to explain that most people would have assumed that because the youth looked aggressive because of his clothing haircut and actions they would have expected him to attack the man in the suit.

Evidently this wasn t the case and this is an important learning point this is what can happen when assumptions are made but not validated i.e. the wrong conclusions are drawn. It is critical that the learner learns to validate the assumptions that they make.

During the course of the training application the user is expected to complete more What happens next scenarios each time inputting the assumptions that they are making about the characters and situations in the videos. This encourages the learner to think about assumption making the assumptions that they themselves make and how those can be both correct and incorrect.

At the end of the Awareness phase a point of reflection may be added. Points of Reflection are a critical part of learning by practice since they give the user an opportunity to think about their actions what they have learned and what they might change going forward.

The virtual coach may give the user feedback on the options that they chose throughout the scenarios and prompt the user of the necessity to validate the assumptions that were made. The virtual coach then prompts the learner to practice validating their assumptions in part two of the training namely Validation .

When desired the validation portion of the present invention may be accessed by clicking on the home button on a current screen and returning to the main screen of . At the main screen the validation button may then be depressed.

The toolbar along the left hand side of the screen is populated with the foregoing buttons and may or may not be available to the user. The functions associated with the foregoing buttons will now be set forth.

As shown in a briefing screen appears which is accompanied by an audio sample including a voice over mimicking a police radio call that briefs the learner about the incident to which they are to attend. A panel along the right hand side of the screen gives details of the learners briefing Domestic incident reported at 8 Falkirk St. please attend and interview neighbors 

Multiple areas may be highlighted on the map each corresponding to a different scenario. A toolbar along the left hand side of the screen has been populated with multiple buttons the details for which have been set forth hereinabove.

While the audio sample may relate to any type of stimulus a domestic incident may be chosen as the example scenario. Once listening to the audio sample the appropriate area on the briefing screen may be selected.

Upon selection of the appropriate area on the briefing screen a street scene screen appears which includes a pair of doors and as shown in . By moving an icon on the two doors on the screen each highlights and may be selected by simply clicking on the same. Upon clicking the user may interview the neighbors. As an option no one maybe at home in the house where the disturbance was reported. This may be indicated by way of a pop up window.

After selecting one of the doors a close up of a person answering the door may appear. shows such screen which includes a central interface for the validation portion of the present invention. Such interface is adapted for providing a computer implemented training session. Provided is a navigation bar which as the Home Briefing Coach References What Next and Exit buttons similar to those of .

The interface further includes a first frame for displaying an image or video presentation. Also on the interface is a first text box for displaying multiple choice questions relating to the presentation. A second frame is included for displaying a transcript of the training session. Such transcript includes the questions selected from the first text box and answers generated based on the questions.

For illustrating comments entered by the user during the training session a second text box is provided. As will be set forth hereinafter comments entered by the user during the training session may be entered via a pop up window. As an option the second text box includes at least two overlaid pages in the form of a folder.

The first text box includes an Ask list box. The Ask list box contains a number of questions that the learner can use to interview the neighbor with more questions appearing as the interview progresses. During this phase of the training the learner asks questions and is asked to recognize when they are making assumptions and then to validate those assumptions.

A continue button is also included on the screen of . The continue button is used after selecting a question to effectively ask the neighbor the selected question. The second text box or the Transcript scrolling text box displays the questions that the learner has asked along with the responses from the interviewee.

Using the foregoing interface a method of teaching validation of assumptions is implemented. illustrates an outline of such method which begins by a plurality stimuli being presented to a user in the context of a simulation in operation . In one embodiment the stimuli may include a prerecorded audio clip a prerecorded video clip an animation a graphic a text presentation a real time audio stream and or a real time video stream in the first frame of .

The user is then prompted to enter responses to the stimuli in operation . Such responses are subsequently received and recorded in operation . The responses may include questions for the person in order to collect evidence pertinent to the situation. Further the user may be prompted to enter the responses to the stimuli by listing a plurality of responses in the first text box of and allowing the user to select between the listed responses. As an option the stimuli and the responses are displayed after the receipt thereof in the form of a transcript in the second text box of during the course of the simulation.

The user is then allowed to enter assumptions that form a basis of the responses as indicated in operation . Next the user is prompted to enter information on how to validate the assumptions which is subsequently received in operation . The user may be automatically prompted to enter the assumptions that form the basis of the responses and the information on how to validate the assumptions. Similar to the responses and stimuli the assumptions and the information on how to validate the assumptions may be displayed after the receipt thereof during the course of the simulation in the second text box of .

Feedback is then outputted based on the stimuli and responses in operation . Such feedback relates to appropriate assumptions and information on how to validate the appropriate assumptions. As an option the feedback may be further based on a number of assumptions entered.

In the present example shown in upon the stimuli i.e. the person answering the door being presented to the user the user is prompted to enter a response by selecting a question from first text box to ask the person. Once selected the continue button is selected which prompts the person in the first frame to answer in an audio format. Such question and answer are then ordered and enumerated in the transcript that is shown in the second frame through the course of the simulation. This is continued until a question is chosen that requires an assumption to be made.

In the case of the question selected in Do they often make a lot of noise during the day the assumption that has probably been made is that the neighbor is probably a housewife and inside during the day. Once the information is entered in boxes and the OK button is selected which prompts another pop up window shown in . In such pop up window a reminder is given to the user to enter assumptions and validations when selecting questions by manually selecting the identify an assumption button of in order to prompt the pop up window of . After viewing the pop up box the OK button may be depressed which returns the process to screen of .

The text that is entered on the pop up window of is then entered on a pair of overlaid pages in form of a folder in the second text box . In order to conserve space only one of the pages may be viewed at once and each page may be viewed by selecting the corresponding tab. From now on if the learner finds that they are making an assumption they click on the identify an assumption button and type in the assumption that they are making and how they would expect to validate it. If the learner chooses another loaded question but does not select identify an assumption button they may be promoted automatically

At the end of the scenario the virtual coach returns and dependent upon the number of assumptions the learner identified and optionally on the text they typed in the user is provided feedback on their performance. The coach point outs that the learner identified some key points where assumptions and validations would need to be made.

The virtual coach also explains that the transcript of the interview along with the assumptions and validations that the learner made have now been submitted to a live coach who may discuss them further.

There is particular value in having a live coach or group discussion at this point not only for the reflective value but also as a gauge of what the learner is actually learning. The learner further has the opportunity to view a video audio clip including an anecdote from an experienced officer relating his or her experience in a similar situation and the mistakes they made and how they learned from the situation.

 Lessons learned are an important learning tool as points of reflection for knowledge sharing reassurance and validation of the learner s behavior. And from the trainee s point of view if the war story is delivered by a recognized and respected Officer they also add credence to the training.

In one example the officer had been in a similar position to the user the witness was a young West Indian male and throughout the interview he would not meet the Officer s eye. However because of the prior cultural awareness training that the officer had had he did not make the assumption that the witness was uneasy.

Instead he concluded that the witness would not meet his eye because in West Indian culture it is a sign of respect to not directly meet the eye of a senior.

When desired the action portion of the present invention may be accessed by clicking on the home button on a current screen and returning to the main screen of . At the main screen the action button may then be depressed.

The Action portion of the present invention provides a computer implemented training session for training a user on assumptions by reversing a role of the user from a trainee to a trainer. An outline of such session is shown in . First a simulation is presented to a user in operation . Such simulation includes a virtual trainee. During the simulation the virtual trainee is subjected to a plurality of stimuli. Note operation . In one embodiment the stimuli includes a prerecorded audio clip a prerecorded video clip an animation a graphic a text presentation a real time audio stream and or real time video stream.

Then in operation the virtual trainee is showed giving responses to the stimuli during the simulation. At this point the user is allowed to enter assumptions that form a basis of the responses of the virtual trainee as indicated in operation . The user is then prompted to enter information on how to validate the assumptions in operation .

The assumptions and the information on how to validate the assumptions may be displayed after the receipt thereof during the course of the simulation. As an option the user may be automatically prompted to enter the assumptions that form the basis of the responses and the information on how to validate the assumptions.

Finally feedback is outputted in operation . During the course of the simulation the user may be given access to a knowledge base including information on assumptions and validation. A sample screen for the action portion of the present invention is shown in .

The learner now has the opportunity to remediate a virtual learner on their performance in a scenario similar to that of the validation portion of the invention and practice any new behavior they have learned. In the previous situations in the validation portion of the present invention the coach explains the learner s role and goal to them. In this case however the user now change roles and plays the part of a coach to the new virtual user. The new virtual user walks through a similar scenario to the one that the learner has just completed. However this time it is up to the learner to point out to the virtual officer the points in the interview when they are probably making assumptions and the likely avenues for validation that they might try. Learning by teaching is the only more effective way of learning other than learning by practice .

And at the end of the present section the coach returns and encourages the learner to reflect on what they have learned. Now that the learner has become aware of assumption making and the necessity for validating their assumptions they must also learn the appropriate new behaviors for when they find they have made erroneous assumptions. For example having taught the learner that the way they were behaving with an elderly Muslim gentleman was inappropriate they must relearn what is acceptable behavior.

The end of the session would be an ideal time for the user to analyze real scenarios from their early training offline with their Tutor Constable .

An organization s culture is not very susceptible to change through conventional training. Where new behaviors are taught they do not survive well outside the classroom. Where new policies and procedures are taught they do not make an impact on the underlying behaviors assumptions or attitudes. This is for several reasons 

Each of these techniques is helpful to the process of changing culture and behavior but the most successful organizations are those which are also applying principles from cognitive psychology to their training and personal development programs. These principles lead to programs that are vastly more effective than conventional training at changing behaviors assumptions and beliefs amongst staff.

It has been found that the most effective and successful programs for adult training and personal development meet five design principles from cognitive psychology. In layman s terms 

People learn best when they attempt to defend the stances they take justify the decisions they make and understand how these relate to the consequences they find. Making errors is as instructive as getting it right if the objective is to avoid those errors in future. All this is what happens when people experience a task for themselves rather than being told about doing it or watching someone else do it.

Conventional training styles such as lectures audio visuals demonstration and discussion typically result in around 20 retention of information. Up to 80 of the information originally taught is not retained or retrievable by a trainee when needed. By contrast learning by doing typically results in 75 to 80 retention.

This principle is already recognized by most organizations including the police service. Learning on the job provides the experience by which many people learn the 80 of their job trade or profession that was not taught by their conventional training.

Role plays are an attempt to follow this design principle to enrich conventional training but too many role play courses involve many of their trainees only as observers for much of the time or are too heavily scripted for those trainees actually to learn by doing . Such role plays become little more than structured opportunities to observe and discuss .

First hand experience of doing and behaving in the new way and of the adverse consequences of behaving in the old way is essential in instilling new behaviors.

Roger Schank at the Institute of Learning Sciences has identified that people learn best when they can draw on expert advice and war stories to help them to understand the problem being posed and to explore possible responses.

Positive feedback reinforcement should be given to the learner when desired behaviors are used. Constructive feedback criticism including an explanation of why adverse consequences have followed should be given when the wrong behaviors are used. Both should be given in a manner that is acceptable to the learner. This level of support requires sophisticated and responsive feedback mechanisms as well as expert coaches to deliver the feedback well.

An expert should follow the progress of someone who is being trained to ensure that they are experiencing the right behaviors not the wrong ones and to give immediate advice and redirection if not. This is how apprenticeships at the feet of a master have worked so well at passing skills down the centuries. It is also why organizations in which new people work closely with old hands can have persistent cultures for good and bad.

Michael Howe professor of psychology at Exeter University has looked at outstanding performances in the arts and sport to establish what produces excellence. He concluded that opportunity encouragement motivation self confidence but most of all practice determine excellence. The more a learner repeats an exercise the more skilled and proficient he or she is likely to become. Practice is fundamental to the development of proficiency in mental as well as physical disciplines and therefore in behaviors.

Practice aids memory through repetition. If one says the same twenty numbers repeatedly he or she will eventually learn them by heart. Many people learned their tables and the alphabet this way. To do so teachers probably broke the numbers down into groups whose rhythm or pattern helped people remember the sequence.

Practicing can boil much more complex tasks than knowing multiplication tables down into manageable patterns that aid memory.

A police officer who has to decide what to do in complex situations will during his or her years of service have developed patterns to simplify those situations. These patterns need to contain the relevant information to trigger the desired new behaviors. Achieving this takes repetition i.e. extensive practice in which the new patterns and behaviors are practiced and the old ones deliberately ignored. Imagine learning new tables where 5 times 9 is no longer 45 etc. Then take a test on them in the dark and in potential danger.

Insufficiently relevant practice is useless. Similarity between the context in which the practice takes place and that where the real life behavior must occur is essential. Information is stored in the brain with the context in which it was learnt. This context is used when trying to retrieve the information from memory into order to use it. It is part of the brain s index regardless of whether the information stored is a new acquaintance s name a chronology of the kings and queens of England or the skill of dealing with an individual as an individual.

Research into the memory of elderly people has recently been carried out using scents to recreate the context in which information was stored in memory years ago. The scent of Blitz bombing was so effective in helping one man recall information that he could reel off the serial number of the rifle he used in the war which he had not seen since.

Retrieving learned skills when they are needed in a different environment to that where they were learned is far more difficult. Ballet dancers may practice their individual movements in a classroom but to practice expert performance they take part in dress rehearsals in full costume and on stage under the theatre lights in front of an audience of colleagues. This simulates the context of the real performance and they practice performing. On opening night they can reproduce this practice because the context is similar.

The context relevant to practice includes internal factors not just similarity of the physical environment. Internal factors can be more important than the physical environment. Sportsmen visualize competition to create the mental context in which they can reproduce winning performances. Hypnotherapy helps people to recreate past contexts that can allow them to remember information that is otherwise inaccessible.

Conventional training seldom creates any relevant similarity between the context of the training either the physical class or lecture room or the mental state of the trainee and the environments and circumstances in which the lessons learned have to be retrieved and applied. Analyzing these environments and designing a relevant context in which lessons should be learned is essential.

If one has a child who plays computer games it may be considered how much more quickly proficiency is achieved in the more interesting games and how much longer those games are played. The most commercially successful computer games present goals that interest and engage to the point of addiction. Training is a far more purposeful activity than computer gaming and the skills learned in computer games are usually of little transferable value but the principle of motivation is similar.

A goal based exercise is a problem presented in way that motivates a learner by giving him or her a goal to achieve within a learning exercise. The goal encourages persistence in the exercise whilst exploring and solving the problem within the exercise provides experience practice if repeated and therefore learning.

Adult training and personal development programs that aim to change behavior are always subject to constraints that arise from the organization within which the program delivered and from the nature of the job that trainees are doing.

The 5 principles and 5 constraints above should be recognized in building any training and personal development program that aims to change behaviors within the police service. To do so requires considerable professional expertise to be applied to the analysis and design of the coaching the context and the goals. The outcome of that expert design process could be constructed as training and development material in one of three possible forms 

Materials in these forms have been successfully employed on programs to change behavior and culture in the business and voluntary sectors. The program aims have been as varied as combating alcohol dependency increasing managerial decisiveness converting instructors to effective coaches introducing team working and effective negotiating. Each form of material has strengths and weaknesses when measured against the 5 principles and the practical constraints within the police service. But the generic design process by which material should be developed is established proven and in use. This process and the professional expertise that is required to perform it can be shared with the public sector.

 On the job training would involve an officer being coached in new behaviors for police service by an expert whilst on duty in real life situations and surrounded by fellow officers and the public. Against each of the 5 principles 

For the police service on the job training would be highly dependent on the subjective interventions of the coaches who were available and on enough opportunity for practice occurring during the routine duty of the training period. As a result it is likely to deliver variable messages to trainees and these messages are unlikely to have a lasting impact on them. To deliver in a reasonable period on the job training would also require more expert coaches and role models than are likely to be available. Without them it would be unlikely to deliver much of a message in the first place.

Staged simulation involves role playing in a setting that mimics real life incidents using actors to create scenarios in which the trainee plays his or her own role. It differs from simple role playing in that the balance of scripting and the ability of the actors to improvise must allow the trainee a lot of freedom to alter the course of events by his or her behavior.

Staged simulation is an effective way of delivering personal development training to compact audiences. However for the police service it has very substantial logistical difficulties particularly in providing enough capacity for every trainee to obtain adequate practice. Staged simulation also depends heavily upon the availability of sufficient numbers of capable actors. And the actors can subjectively influence the messages delivered since they must be allowed the latitude for improvisation yet they control the scope and content of the trainees experience. Staged simulation is likely to be scalable for the police service.

Practice based development packages provide trainees with multi media computer software to perform exercises in a virtual world simulation rather like a flight simulator with less hardware and more psychology. They combine repeatability of each exercise with the mass reproduction of the best expertise for all trainees with the ability of software to respond from a repertoire rather than either from an overly simple script or by free improvisation.

Practice based development packages on multi media are an effective way of delivering personal development training and are scalable to the extent needed by the police service. They can provide every trainee with first hand experience freedom to practice and coaching on demand .

Such packages also eliminate subjectivity from the delivery once material has been developed it reaches every trainee precisely as signed off. And once released its logistics allow the program to be completed by everybody in a short period.

Practice based development packages should be the core material in any training and personal development program that aims to change behaviors and culture within the police service. The full content of a program with this at its core might include 

The design of a program in accord with the principles and constraints discussed in this submission is a professional discipline. So is the creation of multi media software. An effective program cannot be designed without expert use of the know how and methods of both together with professional knowledge of the nature of policing and consensus amongst policy makers on the specific behaviors to be trained.

None of the proposals advanced in this submission is intended to address so called bad apples the community of those who exploit and extrapolate the current culture as opposed to simply tolerating and conforming to it. But if the culture is changed for all around them then those around them and their leaders can more readily isolate and deal with this community.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

