---

title: Delivering secured media using a portable memory device
abstract: In some embodiments an interface of a portable memory device is used to store content information in a hidden memory region of the portable memory device. The interface is also used to store information in a visible memory region of the portable memory device. The information stored in the visible memory region allows the content information stored in the hidden memory region to be accessed. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08683159&OS=08683159&RS=08683159
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 08683159
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071227
---
Flash memory devices such as memory cards typically have a single relatively slow speed interface. Additionally all of the content on the flash memory device is visible via that interface and there are no supporting features to provide content protection in order to provide for example entertainment content to a user that is secured and or is protected from a user attempting to misuse the content.

Some embodiments of the inventions relate to delivering secured media using a portable memory device.

In some embodiments an interface of a portable memory device is used to store content information in a hidden memory region of the portable memory device. The interface is also used to store information in a visible memory region of the portable memory device. The information stored in the visible memory region allows the content information stored in the hidden memory region to be accessed.

In some embodiments a portable memory device includes a hidden memory region and a visible memory region. An interface of the portable memory device is to store content information in the hidden memory region in some embodiments in a write only manner . The interface also is to store information in the visible memory region. The information stored in the visible memory region is used to access the content information in the hidden memory region.

In some embodiments an article includes a computer readable medium having instructions thereon which when executed cause a computer to store content information in a hidden memory region of a portable memory device using an interface of the portable memory device and to store information in a visible memory region of the portable memory device using the interface. The information stored in the visible memory region allows the content information stored in the hidden memory region to be accessed.

In some embodiments access to the hidden memory region of the memory map is enforced differently at the first interface and the second interface . In some embodiments the first higher speed interface is controlled for example by the content supplier who supplies among other things media content and a Media Access Code to the memory map . In some embodiments the second interface is a standard storage device interface for example a standard USB2 storage device interface . In some embodiments the second interface only has read access to the visible memory region and does not have any access to the hidden memory region . The code contained in the visible memory region is run or used to tightly control access to the hidden media content included in hidden memory region .

As described above in some embodiments the memory card includes two interfaces. This includes in some embodiments a very high speed interface optimized to rapidly write data into the memory map of the memory device and also includes in some embodiments a slower interface for example a USB2 interface to supply media from the memory device to a media player. In some embodiments memory device includes a controller not illustrated in such as a flash controller. The controller of the memory device is used in some embodiments to enforce several policies to ensure that any media for example such as a movie on the memory device will be secure from theft or tampering for example.

In some embodiments the controller of the memory device performs several different functions of controlling the interfaces and and or controlling portions of the memory map etc. as set forth below. In some embodiments the high speed interface which may in some embodiments be a write only interface and in other embodiments may be a read interface and a write interface is used to load the memory map of the memory device for example to load an entire movie onto the memory device in a minute . In some embodiments the interface into the hidden memory region is an interface with write only access. In some embodiments most or all of the memory map locations of the memory device are scrubbed prior to writing new data thereon. In some embodiments most or all of the hidden memory region locations are scrubbed prior to writing new data thereon. In some embodiments most or all of the visible memory region locations are scrubbed prior to writing new data thereon. In some embodiments a single atomic write sequence fills both the visible and hidden portions and of the memory map . In some embodiments a single atomic write sequence fills the hidden portion of the memory map . In some embodiments a single atomic write sequence fills the hidden portion of the memory map . In some embodiments a single atomic write sequence fills the hidden portion of memory map and a separate single atomic write sequence fills the visible portion of memory map . In some embodiments these two atomic write sequences are performed in a sequential manner. In some embodiments these two atomic write sequences are performed in an interleaved manner.

In some embodiments the second interface is only allowed to access a programmable visible region of the memory map . In some embodiments this access may be read or read write in some embodiments depending on the Digital Rights Management DRM policy of the content provider. In some embodiments APIs Application Programming Interfaces are provided with application code to cross the boundary between the hidden memory region and the visible memory region as well as to manage security features for example return content from hidden memory a clock feature so that content expires a monotonic counter to count uses and then to expire and or various keys . In some embodiments other cryptographic features and or some security primitives or other functions are included in the memory map such as for example a hardware decompress and or decrypt that does partial or complete work on the data.

In some embodiments the visible memory region of the memory map includes a file an application a media player an API and or some other code that is able to cross the border between the visible memory region and the hidden memory region to access the content information stored in the hidden memory region of the memory map . In some embodiments the visible memory region of memory map contains a file system that includes code that is used to access the media stored in the hidden region of the memory . In some embodiments the visible region stores for example publicly visible content such as adds coupons special features etc. The visible region also includes in some embodiments one or more specific mechanisms to extract the content from the hidden region of the memory and make that content visible to a media player device via the interface . In some embodiments the visible region also includes some or all of the media renderer that may be delivered in multiple forms for example media player executable code a web page that delivers a media stream to a Windows Media Player RealPlayer QuickTime and or a proprietary player for example and or a media player plug in such as a Windows Media Player plug in .

In some embodiments the hidden memory region contains the media which is not visible in the limited file system exposed by the interface . The format encryption compression and or other DRM etc. is as strong as required by the media supplier and the media renderer in the visible region contains the secret information needed to unwrap it. The hidden memory portion also includes in some embodiments any keys serial numbers and or other identifying marks such as point of sale etc.

While has been described in reference to two interfaces and it is noted that in some embodiments only one interface may be necessary. Further it is noted that in some embodiments interfaces and are two different physical interfaces. However in some embodiments interfaces and are two different logical interfaces for example in some embodiments interfaces and are two different logical interfaces within one physical interface .

In some embodiments memory device is a new class of memory device with features that allow it to be used in a media content rental and or sale arrangement. While previous memory devices have a single rather slow speed interface all content on them is visible and there are no supporting features to support content protection the memory device allows a new use to be made out of memory devices such as fast flash memory cards for example. In some embodiments the features of memory device not only provide high quality content protection but they also are very flexible in providing the content provider with a flexible platform to upgrade their DRM and to continue to protect intellectual property rights of their content.

In some embodiments flow illustrates one or many possible operations that may be used to play media according to some embodiments for example in some embodiments to play media on a computer such as a PC . It is noted that the form that a media player takes and how data is securely recovered from a memory device vary dramatically according to some embodiments for example depending on the specific player model and the specific security models used. According to some embodiments various software hooks and mechanisms are provided to implement a wide variety of solutions according to a variety of embodiments.

In any case at of flow of a load of a memory device is requested. At a determination is made as to whether the load request is a write only load request. If it is not a write only load request then flow stays at . If it is a write only load request then the memory device for example in some embodiments a flash memory device is zeroed erased scrubbed etc. at . At a determination is made as to whether the memory device has been completely zeroed. If not flow remains at until the zeroing has been completed. Once the memory device has been completely zeroed then the memory device in some embodiments a flash memory device is loaded at .

According to some embodiments a memory device includes two different interfaces that allow different performance characteristics. In some embodiments the two different interfaces are never used to access the memory device simultaneously.

In some embodiments a consumer brings their memory device to a retail or other location and uses the memory device to rent and or buy media content without the need to ever return anything since for example a counter and or timer may be implemented within the memory device . This is implemented according to some embodiments in a secure and content protective manner.

Although some embodiments have been described herein as being flash memory related and or media card related for example according to some embodiments these particular implementations may not be required and any memory device may be used.

Although some embodiments have been described in reference to particular implementations other implementations are possible according to some embodiments. Additionally the arrangement and or order of circuit elements or other features illustrated in the drawings and or described herein need not be arranged in the particular way illustrated and described. Many other arrangements are possible according to some embodiments.

In each system shown in a figure the elements in some cases may each have a same reference number or a different reference number to suggest that the elements represented could be different and or similar. However an element may be flexible enough to have different implementations and work with some or all of the systems shown or described herein. The various elements shown in the figures may be the same or different. Which one is referred to as a first element and which is called a second element is arbitrary.

In the description and claims the terms coupled and connected along with their derivatives may be used. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. Rather in particular embodiments connected may be used to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. Coupled may mean that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. However coupled may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

An algorithm is here and generally considered to be a self consistent sequence of acts or operations leading to a desired result. These include physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be understood however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities.

Some embodiments may be implemented in one or a combination of hardware firmware and software. Some embodiments may also be implemented as instructions stored on a machine readable medium which may be read and executed by a computing platform to perform the operations described herein. A machine readable medium may include any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a machine readable medium may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices electrical optical acoustical or other form of propagated signals e.g. carrier waves infrared signals digital signals the interfaces that transmit and or receive signals etc. and others.

An embodiment is an implementation or example of the inventions. Reference in the specification to an embodiment one embodiment some embodiments or other embodiments means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiments is included in at least some embodiments but not necessarily all embodiments of the inventions. The various appearances an embodiment one embodiment or some embodiments are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiments.

Not all components features structures characteristics etc. described and illustrated herein need be included in a particular embodiment or embodiments. If the specification states a component feature structure or characteristic may might can or could be included for example that particular component feature structure or characteristic is not required to be included. If the specification or claim refers to a or an element that does not mean there is only one of the element. If the specification or claims refer to an additional element that does not preclude there being more than one of the additional element.

Although flow diagrams and or state diagrams may have been used herein to describe embodiments the inventions are not limited to those diagrams or to corresponding descriptions herein. For example flow need not move through each illustrated box or state or in exactly the same order as illustrated and described herein.

The inventions are not restricted to the particular details listed herein. Indeed those skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that many other variations from the foregoing description and drawings may be made within the scope of the present inventions. Accordingly it is the following claims including any amendments thereto that define the scope of the inventions.

