---

title: Systems and methods for financial assessment specific advice
abstract: A financial assessment tool provides a user with specific, actionable advice personalized to the user, based on known and provided user data. In addition to the specific advice, a rationale is provided for the specific advice. Also, resources for additional educational material are provided to help the user understand the context for the advice. The financial assessment tool is available online and uses previously stored data pertaining to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08521628&OS=08521628&RS=08521628
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08521628
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070822
---
This application is related by subject matter to that disclosed in the following commonly assigned applications the entirety of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 843 486 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 843 495 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 843 500 each filed on Aug. 22 2007 and each entitled Systems And Methods For Financial Assessment Specific Advice. 

Currently available financial assessment tools sometimes referred to as calculators include credit and debt tools retirement tools auto tools personal insurance tools investment tools and home ownership tools. The financial assessment tools provide general financial and retirement advice. However these tools do not provide specific actionable advice personalized to the user. In fact these conventional tools generally carry disclaimers that they are not intended to provide any sort of financial or retirement advice.

Conventional credit and debt tools for example receive a list of income and expenditures entered by a user and then provide a report or chart so the user can see how much he has left to save and where his money is being spent. Some tools provide general advice such as reduce the expenses you listed during one month every time you would ordinarily spend money on one of the items listed as expenses write down the amount you didn t spend at the end of the month add up the total amount of savings for each item and you will see how much money you saved. The user is otherwise on his own to analyze the information and determine any areas or specific actions for improvement.

Similarly conventional retirement tools allow a user to enter expected retirement expenses and income and give the user a listing of his projected financial balances year by year until a certain age such as 85 years old or 100 years old. Along with the listing the tool may provide a general statement to the user that he may need to save more or spend less. It is up to the user however to analyze the projections and other information and determine any specific action that he should take.

A financial assessment tool provides specific actionable advice personalized to the user using known and provided user data. A rationale is provided for the specific advice along with resources for additional educational material to help the user understand the context for the advice. The financial assessment tool is available online and uses previously stored data pertaining to the user.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Data may be provided to the financial assessment tool via a user entering the data from the user computing device or retrieved from data storage device s or external storage or any combination thereof for example. A user may enter data via a page of content such as a website maintained by an entity associated with the financial assessment specific advice system displayed on the user computing device . Any type of user interface and data file may be used to receive and store data into the page of content. An example implementation is shown in and is further described below.

Data storage device s may contain user information that had been previously received and stored e.g. with respect to a user s accounts. This data may be personal information such as the user s marital status age number of dependent children employment status for example and may be presented to the user for verification.

Various external data sources are shown in external storage such as credit cards financial institutions software applications and public databases . The external data sources may be in communication with the financial assessment specific advice system via a network such as a local area network a wide area network or the Internet. Additional example sources of data may include bank accounts retirement accounts brokerage accounts mutual funds annuities certificates of deposits investment accounts and credit card accounts for example. Data may be retrieved from the data storage device s and external storage and provided to the financial assessment tool . The user information that is retrieved from storage may be used to prefill the financial assessment tool and may be presented to the user for verification.

The external data items may be retrieved screen scraped through private third party websites e.g. websites associated with credit cards and financial institutions if the user has provided permission and proper credentials for accessing such private third party websites. Publicly available data might include data acquired from sites and resources such as the stock market government pages that publish inflation rates and other items that might be used in financial calculators for example. Screen scraping is well known and it is contemplated that any appropriate screen scraping product or technique may be used.

After the data is acquired from storage it can be used to prefill certain inputs in the calculators and analyzers in the financial assessment tool . The fields or items remaining without user data after the population can then be identified and brought to the user s attention e.g. by highlighting these items on the content page or using another identifying mechanism to show the user what information is still needed. This information if any may then be manually provided by the user. The data from the external storage can also be stored in the data storage device s after it is acquired.

In an implementation additional data for use by the financial assessment tool may be requested from the user and provided by the user via a page of content as shown in . A user may enter data requested by the financial assessment tool or a template associated with the financial assessment tool such as for example his age his marital status whether he has dependents or children whether he owns a house whether he has disability coverage whether he has life insurance whether he has retirement savings etc. along with additional data such as particular coverage and amounts. The page of content may also display other content such as services products rates quotes advertisements etc.

Thus data pertaining to areas such as family protection estate planning money management and investing for goals for example may be collected and analyzed with specific advice and recommendations provided in these areas and based on these areas as described further herein. The data and areas listed here are provided as examples only and it is contemplated that additional or alternative information may be requested and used by the financial assessment tool depending on the implementation of the financial assessment tool and the particular calculations and analyses that are made.

In an implementation an aggregation engine receives user data from the external storage as well as from the data storage device s which may contain previously retrieved data and or data that is hosted by an institution that supports the financial assessment specific advice system and provides it to the calculators and analyzers . The user data may be contained within a host financial institution e.g. the institution that maintains or uses the calculators or may be contained in external institutions for example. The received user data may also be stored in data storage device s . Data that is aggregated may include user profile information income expenses assets insurance policies and amounts plan horizon etc. for example. Additionally data from investment and retirement accounts that might include retirement accounts mutual funds bonds etc. may be acquired aggregated and used in calculations and analysis. The aggregated data may be stored in data storage device s for example and may be automatically updated periodically.

A financial assessment determination is made and analyses and advice are generated by the calculators and analyzers based on the aggregated data. The output of the calculators and analyzers can be stored in the data storage device s and or provided to the user via the user computing device for example.

After retrieving and storing the data from the various sources each time the user desires a financial assessment determination with specific advice the financial assessment tool can use the data that had previously been accessed and stored and can perform the financial assessment determination based on the data. The aggregated data may be used to prefill the fields in the page of content that would otherwise have to be manually populated by the user each time an assessment is desired.

The output of the calculators and analyzers may include personalized user advice along with rationales and resource links described further herein. In an implementation different profiles e.g. employed retired married with dependents married without dependents etc. may be stored and used in the financial assessment. The financial assessment tool may be customized to any of the profiles and is then used accordingly. The specific advice that is provided to the user may be prioritized and the order of priority may be dependent on aspects of the user s profile. In an implementation an advice priority order comprising medical insurance disability insurance debt and negative cash flow auto insurance and long term care may depend on the user s marital status employment status number of dependent children and age. For example medical insurance advice may be given the highest priority for one group while long term care is given the highest priority for another group.

Software modules are shown that may be used in the performance of the example techniques described herein in conjunction with the other various elements and components of the financial assessment specific advice system . Example software modules include modules for acquiring and aggregating user data calculating and analyzing user data and generating and displaying personalized user advice along with rationales and resource links described further herein. While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules the functionality may likewise be performed by more fewer or other modules. The functionality may be distributed among more than one module.

At operation the user enters additional data into the template pursuant to a request or prompt. After the data is entered into the template the financial assessment tool performs the appropriate calculations and analyses at operation and makes a financial assessment determination. At operation the financial assessment tool outputs the results on a page of content such as that described with respect to to be displayed on the user computing device and or stores the results of the calculations and analyses in storage. In an implementation the results may include actionable advice personalized to the user a rationale for the specific advice and resources for additional educational material to help the user understand the context for the advice. As described further below a financial strength score may also be provided at operation .

In an implementation calculation logic for disability coverage is that if the user is employed and responds that he does not have disability insurance then the recommended coverage is 60 of his income. For life insurance if the life insurance amount entered by the user is less than 7 times his gross annual income then the user is advised to purchase the additional amount needed to reach 7 times his gross annual income. For a case in which a user has dependents and either he or his spouse does not have an income then a recommended caregiver life insurance amount that they should obtain is displayed such as 250 000 500 000 etc.

In an implementation for debt the monthly debt payments are divided by total monthly income. If the debt is greater than a certain amount then specific advice is provided to get the user out of debt in a particular period of time. For an emergency fund if the user s amount saved is less than six months times his monthly expenses plus his monthly debt payments then specific advice is provided to increase the user s emergency fund amount to a particular amount. For retirement savings if the combined employee and employer contributions are less than 15 of the user s gross annual income then specific advice is provided to get the user to increase his contribution to 15 . The number percentages and other formulas used in these calculations are intended to be examples only and may be changed modified combined or eliminated in various implementations.

As shown in the example page of content of that may be provided to a user in an implementation specific advice that may be actionable and personalized may be provided on a page of content displayed on the user computing device . Advice may be directed to medical insurance advice disability coverage life insurance auto insurance home insurance and mortgage payments estate planning debt consumer household retirement planning and college savings for example though the advice is not limited to these areas. The advice may provide specific dollar amounts in various implementations.

The specific advice may be actionable meaning that the user can take some particular action to follow the advice and the advice may be personalized meaning it is generated based on the user s data.

Thus the financial assessment tool outputs specific advice e.g. obtain disability coverage that provides at least X yearly buy X of term insurance immediately begin saving X of income for retirement employer 401K IRAs etc. where the X s represent numbers determined by the calculations and analyses performed by the financial assessment tool and may include advice regarding third parties e.g. go to an attorney and set up a will go to an attorney and establish guardianship and power of attorney etc. . The advice may take the form of a to do list. In an implementation the advice is output as a checklist such as a prioritized checklist.

Examples of specific advice in an implementation are directed to disability coverage life insurance and retirement savings. An amount of disability coverage may be recommended to the user. The recommended disability coverage may be based on the user s gross annual income. In an implementation the recommended disability coverage may be determined to be 60 percent of the user s gross annual income. A user may be provided with advice such as Obtain disability coverage that provides at least X yearly where X is a number or Obtain disability coverage that provides at least 60 of your annual income for example.

An amount of life insurance may be recommended to the user. The recommended life insurance may be based on the user s income and existing life insurance coverage. In an implementation the recommended life insurance may be an additional amount of life insurance that the user should obtain and may be determined to be 7 times the user s income less any existing coverage the user already has. Alternatively a fixed amount of life insurance such as 250 000 1 000 000 or 2 000 000 for example may be recommended. The advice may be provided to the user as You should buy an additional X of life insurance or Your spouse should buy X more of life insurance for example.

An additional amount that the user should put towards retirement savings each month may also be recommended to the user. In an implementation this amount is determined to be 15 percent of the user s income less the current amount that the user is putting towards retirement savings. The specific advice may be provided to the user as You should save an additional X per month toward your retirement or You should save an additional X per month toward your retirement for example.

Additionally a rationale for the specific advice may be provided along with a listing of resources for additional educational material to help the user understand the context for the specific advice . Rationales may be for example illness and injury can occur at any time for specific health insurance advice not having enough insurance may leave you with expensive medical bills or limit the care that you receive for specific health insurance advice disability can significantly decrease income while increasing medical and care expense you will need coverage that replaces about 60 of your income for specific disability coverage advice and buying a policy based on price alone can leave you exposed to large expenses for specific auto insurance advice etc.

The listing of resources may include links to databases presentations educational content websites Internet addresses telephone numbers and names of publications for example. Thus the links may be provided to resource materials pertaining to the specific advice along with additional paths to other products and service recommendations such as those pertaining to home health auto etc. Links may also be provided to more specific calculators such as an auto coverage calculator allowing the user to get advice that is more specific.

Monitoring items and service items may also be displayed on the page of content . For example a user may be advised to review his insurance every two years review his estate planning documents every three years rebalance his investments annually and check his credit report annually. Rationales may be provided for this advice along with links to resources . Service items include lists of calculators or tools that the user may find interesting e.g. retirement education budgeting etc. the names of financial planners and advisors that may be available to provide assistance etc. As with the advice the monitoring and other service items may be provided in a prioritized order.

Additionally take action links may also be displayed that a user can select to take action on a particular item of advice e.g. the user may be presented with a link to select to apply for the recommended amount of life insurance or to open a savings account to begin saving for an emergency fund .

In another implementation the user may be provided with the specific advice along with prompts that may be selected to view the rationale the resources and the take action links . For example the advice may be After paying monthly bills save until your emergency fund is 22 000 . In such an implementation the user may be presented with a find out why prompt that he may select for the underlying rationale for that advice and a take action prompt e.g. open a savings account that he may select to act on the advice.

In an implementation a dynamic benchmarking feature is provided. A user s financial strength score is generated e.g. from 0 to 100 and displayed . The score may be determined by assigning a number of points to some or all of the user s data and then adding the points together. In an implementation if the user already has adequate health insurance 10 points are assigned if the user already has adequate disability coverage 10 points are assigned if the user already has adequate life insurance 3 points are assigned and so on. Alternatively the points may be assigned based on which recommendations are or are not provided to a user. If no health insurance advice is provided to a user e.g. because the user has adequate coverage 10 points are assigned if no disability coverage advice is provided to the user e.g. because the user has adequate coverage 10 points are assigned and so on.

Thus in an implementation the financial strength score is a personalized score from 0 to 100 100 being the top score based on answers within the financial assessment that indicates to the user where he ranks compared with a score of 100. Points are assigned to particular areas where the user has either taken action or does not need to take action at the present time. Depending on the score some information or guidance may be provided regarding the score how to interpret the score and how to raise the score for example.

The financial strength score may be saved and gives a user a relative basis for measuring his progress over time as it may be regenerated using current data each time he uses the financial assessment tool. A user may update data using the financial assessment tool whenever he chooses for example when his marital status changes when his employment status changes as the number of dependent children changes. The order of priority and specific advice generated by the financial assessment tool may change along with the points assigned to a topic thereby affecting the user s score.

In an implementation the financial strength score may be compared to the scores of other users who have used the financial assessment tool. For example the financial strength score may be compared to the scores of all other users or only to the scores of users in a particular user group or population. Thus a user may see how he compares not only relative to a score of 100 but also to a particular user group or population such as married people over the age of 50 or employed single people for example. Maintaining the scores of a user group or population also allows the overall progress and advice taken by a user group or population to be tracked by an entity that maintains collects or analyzes the scoring data for example.

The advice that is provided to a user may be dynamic and may change over time or be updated as data pertaining to the user changes. The user may update the data which in turn updates the advice and other associated content that may be provided to the user. In an implementation the user can access the advice list directly and remove or otherwise update items from the list. This may lead to a subsequent regeneration of the content provided to the user. Alternatively the financial assessment tool can automatically update the advice list as the user adds or removes services or changes data e.g. has a baby or gets a salary increase . In an implementation the financial assessment tool queries the storage devices from time to time and updates the user s data and generates advice accordingly.

At operation an optional notification or alert is provided to the user to prompt the user to update the data used by the financial assessment specific advice system. At operation the user logs into or otherwise accesses the system and at operation the user updates the data displayed by the financial assessment tool. Operations described above such as those described with respect to may be performed by the financial assessment tool in receiving and retrieving the updated data from local and external storage devices and from the user.

At operation the financial assessment tool generates and provides updated specific advice and associated content based on the updated data provided by the user and retrieved from storage. The financial assessment tool may highlight or otherwise explain advice and content that is new or has been modified as compared with the previous advice and content that was provided to the user. At operation a financial strength score is generated and provided perhaps along with the user s previous financial strength score. This allows the user to determine if his relative financial strength has improved pursuant to the modified data provided.

At operation a notification or alert is provided to the user to advise the user that the financial assessment specific advice system has generated updated specific advice content and a financial strength score. The notification or alert may contain a summary of the revisions the advice the score and or a link to the updated advice content and score for example. At operation the user may access the financial assessment specific advice system and is provided with the updated specific advice and associated content along with the updated financial strength score.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to personal computers server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network personal computers PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

