---

title: Messaging interface system for customer care
abstract: A system is disclosed for serving a message to a target system. A database message is converted to a common data model to conform to at least two systems and an architecture of the target system. The common data model is transformed into a specified data type of the architecture of the target system. Calls are managed using specified functions available through an application programming interface offered by the architecture of the target system. Functions of the application programming interface are invoked to implement a target message in the architecture of the target system. The message is written to the target system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08060888&OS=08060888&RS=08060888
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 08060888
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20070912
---
This application claims the benefit of EPO Application No. 07 425 430.1 filed Jul. 12 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Telecommunication providers may maintain information in catalogues regarding the products and services offered by or through the provider. The catalogues may be used to compile information that describes varying aspects of the products and the services. Configuration of the catalogues is often performed manually through a user interface for each application that may require the information.

A system and method generally referred to as a system are disclosed for serving a message to a target system. A database message is converted to a common data model to conform to at least two systems and an architecture of the target system. The common data model is transformed into a specified data type of the architecture of the target system. Calls are managed using specified functions available through an application programming interface offered by the architecture of the target system. Functions of the application programming interface are invoked to implement a target message in the architecture of the target system. The message is written to the target system.

Other systems methods tools features and advantages will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the invention and be protected by the following claims.

A messaging interface system may automate product and service catalogue information to a customer care system. The messaging interface system may help to automate the configuration of the product and services catalogue. The product and service catalogue may include product family products and product attributes services and service attributes billing tariffs rating tariffs bundles packages contracts promotions and discounts in a customer relationship management system. The messaging interface system may also enable an external source of data to be fed which could act as a centralized product and service catalogue external to specific application systems or a spreadsheet containing all the information required. Accordingly it is possible to achieve a more efficient serving of messages to a target system in particular independently of possible differences in configuration and or architecture. Furthermore the system and method allow for an improved and more efficient man machine interaction.

The messaging interface system may include a Service Oriented Enterprise Interface SOEI to connect a centralized catalog to system catalogs . The message interface may be configurable and invoked remotely or locally to obtain data from the centralized catalog . The centralized catalog may include a database . The database may be centralized or distributed. The system catalogs may include a customer care system catalog a rating and billing system catalog and an IOM system catalog also referred to as target databases. The centralized catalog may include a commercial catalog view corresponding to the customer care systems catalog a rating and billing catalog corresponding to the rating and billing systems catalog and a technical catalog view related to an IOM system catalog .

Adapters may be used to accommodate transfer of information from the different catalog views and e.g. an extract from the centralized catalog tailored for a specific system application domain to the related system catalogs and . The adapters may include a plurality of adapters such as one for each catalog view . The adapters may allow data of different formats to be shared by disparate parts of the system such as by translating and or converting the data. The adapters allow external applications such as the centralized catalog to interact with the different systems catalogs and to upload and or update system catalogs and uniformly such as with information from the centralized catalog . In such a way the system may provide for the aligning catalog mapping tables used during subscription inventory entity processing according to end to end catalog design updates.

The system may be used to automate configuration of the product and service catalog information on the customer relationship management CRM interface. The CRM may be implemented with specific software that allows a company to measure and control contacts with customers. CRM can be used for controlling contacts with a customer either by phone fax mail and e mail. The data collected can be used for research and analysis of the customer relationship. The system enables a service provider such as a telecommunications service provider to have a normalized catalogue with management that is centralized with a dedicated server. The system provides a way by which external applications as the centralized product and service catalogue system can interact with the CRM to upload or update their product and services catalogue according to a unified and centralized design. The system provides the ability to align catalogues such as those used during subscription processing according to end to end catalogue design updates.

The messaging interface system may include layers that separate certain functionalities of the interface. For example the adapter may include an integration layer an event layer and a logic layer and or dedicated integration tables. The integration tables may enable the mapping of products stored in catalog views and with the ones saved in system catalogs and . Each system catalog and and centralized catalog may store maintain and manage its own product identifiers to leave the integration layer the task to map each other. The system may be coupled with a product instance table for maintaining relationships between identifiers used to track products services and the like in the various support systems of the architecture. The phrase coupled with may mean directly connected to or indirectly connected through one or more intermediate components.

The adapter may connect to a database of a CRM system via an application programming interface API layer or other access service. The integration layer may convert a message to a representation that conforms to a standard or common data model that is enforced across two or more of the systems and the architecture. The event layer may include functions for transforming the standard or common data model representation into data types for use in a specific system of the architecture. The logic layer may include logic for managing calls to system specific functions available through the API layer offered by a specific system of the architecture. The API layer may invoke these API functions to implement a message in the underlying support system of the architecture.

The system may compose orchestrate and or map information to the data format as expected by the APIs. In doing this the system may help avoid the manual configuration of products and product attributes services and service attributes billing tariffs rating tariffs bundles packages contracts promotions discounts into a product and services catalog of the billing system. Additionally the system may help avoid the manual configuration of bundles and packages e.g. composite offerings of multiple product and services that are sold together as result of a specific marketing offering. This may reduce the lead time to roll out a new offering and enable feeding data by an external source to accommodate the centralized catalog such as of products and services. The centralized catalog may then be located externally to a specific application systems or a spreadsheet containing the required information.

The adapter may leverage a web service technology such as Web Services Description Language WSDL . WSDL is an eXtensible Markup Language XML format for describing network services as a set of endpoints operating on messages containing either document oriented or procedure oriented information. The operations and messages may be described abstractly and then bound to a concrete network protocol and message format to define an endpoint. Related concrete endpoints may be combined into abstract endpoints e.g. services. WSDL may be extensible to allow description of endpoints and their messages regardless of what message formats or network protocols are used to communicate. It may consolidate earlier proposals in this area include Network Accessable Service Specification Language NASSL simple object access protocol SOAP Contract Language SCL and Service Description Language SDL . SOAP requests or request from another protocol for web service messages may be used to connect the adapter to back end and legacy applications.

The information may be stored in the customer care system database according to a data model associated with the customer care system. The customer care system may include hardware and software supporting logic which processes customer care action requests. The support logic in the customer care system may be implemented with commercially available customer care software package such as Oracle Siebel application. In some implementations the communication interfaces may be network sockets defined by IP addresses port numbers and communication protocols. The messages may travel between the systems according to a variety of protocols and integration technologies including BEA Aqualogic BEA WLI Tibco Rendezvous Microsoft BizTalk IBM MQseries Vitria Java Message Service protocol Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP or HTTP. In other implementations the systems may communicate via inter process communication messaging or signaling.

The adapters may be provided between the external source of data which could act as a centralized product and service catalogue and the message routing system as well as between the messaging interface and the support systems. The adapters may support transformation of the messages and or message content from a format defined by one schema e.g. a schema for messages to adhere to a specific customer care system to another format determined by another schema e.g. a schema for messages to adhere to in the messaging interface and or support systems.

In one implementation the messages may contain data described by eXtensible Markup Language XML tags and the adapters perform transformation according to eXtensible Stylesheet Language for Transformations XSLT stylesheets. The transformations may transform data between schemas for any of XML Web Service Definition Language WSDL eXtensible Scheme Diagram XSD as examples. The messages may move between systems using any type of transportation or data access protocol including HTTP SOAP or other protocols in place at the customer care management system messaging interface and or support systems. The architecture may also support multiple different reply messages such as a reply message for each supported event. Alternatively or additionally standard reply messages may be used to respond to multiple events. Any other messages or events may be used.

The messaging interface system may support various types of messages. For example the interface may support messages that define products and product attributes services and service attributes billing tariffs rating tariffs bundles packages contracts and promotions. Other types of supported messages may include discount related events for handling product level data messages that define services related events for handling services level data messages that define contracts related events for handling contracts level data and messages that define promotions related events for handling promotions level data. Other messages include messages that define discounts related events for handling discounts level data messages that define billing tariffs related events for handling billing tariffs level data and messages that define rating tariffs related events for handling rating tariffs level data. The messaging interface may support other types of events such as events that specify the compatibility between products the eligibility roles to buy a specific product the price list upgrade and down grade compatibility.

The messaging interface system to automate product and service catalogue information into the customer care system may also implement the logic required to feed the mapping table with the product and service catalogue information included into the external messaging interface. The messaging interface system may create and modify subscription information during the operation of telecommunications processing ecosystem. The mapping table configuration typically otherwise requires manual work to be done directly into the table.

In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server client user network environment or as a peer computer system in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The computer system may also be implemented as or incorporated into various devices such as a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile device a palmtop computer a laptop computer a desktop computer a communications device or any other machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. The computer system may be implemented using electronic devices that provide voice video or data communication. Further while a single computer system is illustrated the term system shall also be taken to include any collection of systems or sub systems that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.

The computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both. Moreover the computer system may include a main memory and a static memory that may communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit such as a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED a flat panel display a solid state display or a cathode ray tube CRT . Additionally the computer system may include an input device such as a keyboard and a cursor control device such as a mouse. The computer system may also include a disk drive unit a signal generation device such as a speaker or remote control and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit may include a computer readable medium in which one or more sets of instructions e.g. software may be embedded. Further the instructions may embody one or more of the methods or logic as described herein. In a particular embodiment the instructions may reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may include computer readable media.

Dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices may be constructed to implement one or more of the tools described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments may broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that may be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit.

The present disclosure contemplates a computer readable medium that includes instructions or receives and executes instructions responsive to a propagated signal so that a device connected to a network may communicate voice video or data over the network . Further the instructions may be transmitted or received over the network via the network interface device . While the computer readable medium is shown to be a single medium the term computer readable medium includes a single medium or multiple media such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium also includes any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein.

The computer readable medium may include a solid state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non volatile read only memories. Further the computer readable medium may be a random access memory or other volatile re writable memory. Additionally the computer readable medium may include a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tapes or other storage device to capture carrier wave signals such as a signal communicated over a transmission medium. A digital file attachment to an e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives may be considered a distribution medium that is equivalent to a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a computer readable medium or a distribution medium and other equivalents and successor media in which data or instructions may be stored.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents. It should be understood that the computer program product of the invention may be particularly embodied in a computer readable storage medium as a signal or data stream.

