---

title: Marine shaftless external propulsor
abstract: In one general aspect, a shaftless external propulsion system as described herein provides a sleeve configured to be externally mounted over a hull of a marine vehicle. In addition, the shaftless propulsion system provides a rotor and a first stator mounted on the sleeve. The rotor includes a rotor hub that cooperates with a rotor bearing to enable the rotor to rotate about the sleeve, the rotor further comprising rotor blades attached to the rotor hub. The rotor and the first stator are disposed between a collar located at a first end of the sleeve and a collar hub located at an opposite end of the sleeve.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07841290&OS=07841290&RS=07841290
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07841290
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070212
---
This applications claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 774 809 filed Feb. 14 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to a marine shaftless propulsion system and in particular to an external shaftless propulsion system for a marine vehicle.

Shaftless propulsion systems are an alternative to the traditional shafted propeller and seal systems used by marine vehicles such as undersea vehicles. Disadvantages of traditional shafted propeller and seal systems include mechanical vibrations and noise that propagate down the shaft and become radiated noise. The shaft itself adds considerable weight to the marine vehicle and leaks may develop due to shaft seal wear. Shafted systems also are labor and cost intensive to both install and maintain.

A shaftless propulsion system SPS typically uses an electric motor integrated within the hull of the marine vehicle. One such shaftless propulsion system is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 078 628 to Chester A. Garis Jr. hereinafter referred to as the 628 patent . As shown in FIGS. 1 and 3 of the 628 patent the shaftless propulsion system is installed within the body of the marine vehicle. As shown in FIG. 2 of the 628 patent the shaftless propulsion system includes a rotor and one or more stators . In the system of the 628 patent the two stator disks are secured to the body hull of the marine vehicle and in essence become part of the body . The stators and and rotor are disk shaped without a drive shaft or other mechanism occupying their center. A blade hub with blades is attached to the rotor . The propeller blades extend beyond the circumference of the vehicle housing. The system also includes a shroud with rib supports and openings to accommodate rotating blades .

In the system of the 628 patent the rotor and the stators are located outside of the vessel body and are cooled by the surrounding water. They operate in water and at submergent water pressure thus requiring no complex seals between the motor and the body of the vessel. The rotor is positioned between the two stators and is accompanied by a journal bearing that is positioned between the rotor and the body . As shown in FIG. 3 of the 628 patent the shaftless propulsion system is installed between two sections of the pressure hull which after installation are bolted and secured together. In particular the rotor is journal mounted on a central housing and the rear body section of the vessel can be detachably connected to the front section of the vessel by a bolting flange extending from the central housing . The rear section can be connected to the flange by bolts .

In addition to the positioning of the stators and rotors the 628 patent discloses a cooling system that also is installed within the hull of the marine vehicle. The journal bearing is water cooled and lubricated. Cooling fluid such as filtered seawater is pumped with an onboard pump through a piping system that is sea connected. The cooling fluid is pushed out through the main fluid conduits and the secondary fluid conduits which lead to the journal bearing and thrust bearing assemblies .

U.S. Pat. No. 5 509 830 to Chester A. Garis Jr. hereinafter referred to as the 830 patent describes an improved cooling and lubricating system for a marine propulsor such as the propulsor described in the 628 patent. The blades of the propulsor are used to bring in cooling water thereby dispensing with the need for a separate pump and piping system. Also U.S. Pat. No. 5 286 116 to Chester A. Garis Jr. hereinafter referred to as the 116 patent describes an improved motor and bearing assembly for use in an axial gap electric motor of a marine propulsor such as the propulsor described in the 628 patent. The bearing assembly of the 116 patent is configured to permit the stator to rotor gap and the bearing clearance to be adjusted after final assembly.

One of the most significant disadvantages of the shaftless propulsion system taught by the 628 830 and 116 patents is that the stators are located within the body of the undersea marine vehicle and are attached to the hull. The problem with the system of the 628 patent stems from the fact that undersea marine vehicles compress with increasing depth during a dive. When the undersea marine vehicle dives the hydrostatic pressure outside the hull exceeds the atmospheric pressure inside the hull. This pressure difference compresses not only the hull but also the rotor bearing attached to the hull and the stators attached to the hull. Typical depths can compress the hull by several inches in diameter and the compression increases with increasing depth. Although the diameter of the stators and rotor bearings of the shaftless propulsion system are reduced due to compression during a dive the diameter of the rotor remains unchanged because the rotor is not attached to the hull and is completely immersed in the seawater surrounding the marine vehicle. As a result the gap between the rotor and the rotor bearing increases as the depth of the marine vehicle increases. At or near the surface of the ocean the gap between the rotor and the rotor bearing is small. At increased depth the hull and rotor bearing radius decreases due to hydrostatic pressure enlarging the gap between the rotor and the rotor bearing. The enlarged gap leads to several adverse consequences.

When the gap between the rotor and the rotor bearing increases the rotor is able move so that it is no longer concentric with the rotor bearing and the stators. This non concentric movement can cause several problems. For example the windings of the stator are no longer parallel with the rotor windings which causes reduced efficiency of the motor and reduced output of the propulsor. In addition the surface area of the rotor bearing that is in contact with the rotor is reduced which leads to increased bearing wear. Also the play from the enlargement of the gap between the rotor and the rotor bearing may cause the rotor to have impact collisions with the rotor bearing when the marine vehicle changes direction. The impact collisions between the rotor and rotor bearing cause further wear of the bearing surface and also act as a source of radiated noise. Furthermore if the space between the outer circumferential edge of the rotor blades and the shroud is not sufficient the non concentric movement due to an enlarged gap between the rotor and the rotor bearing may lead to collisions between the rotor blades and the shroud. Such collisions could damage the rotor blades and the shroud and also would act as a source of radiated noise.

In summary the shaftless propulsion system taught by the 628 patent could be rendered noisy damaged and or non functional due to the dive induced non concentric movement of the rotor that is caused by the enlarged gap between the rotor and the rotor bearing experienced during the dive.

Another disadvantage of the shaftless propulsion system as taught by the 628 830 and 116 patents lies with the maintenance of the system and the repair replacement of worn or damaged parts. In order to repair or replace the shaftless propulsion system of the 628 patent the marine vehicle must be placed in drydock. For example the marine vehicle may need to be disassembled and or the hull cut open in order to access the stators and rotor bearing. Placing a marine vehicle in drydock is expensive and time consuming. With respect to the problem of adjusting the rotor bearing without drydocking the vessel the solution offered by the 116 patent is not adequate. The 116 patent attempts to address the goal of not taking the undersea vehicle apart to adjust the bearing by providing a bearing in which the gap is adjustable by manually adjusting nuts and screws where the screws penetrate through the pressure hull. Such penetrations through the pressure hull are disadvantageous for obvious reasons.

In accordance with the present invention a marine shaftless external propulsor is disclosed herein that overcomes the disadvantages of the prior art. In particular disclosed herein is a shaftless propulsion system that does not shrink under the compressive forces of the ocean encountered when an undersea marine vehicle dives.

According to the present invention during a dive of the undersea marine vehicle the stator s and rotor of the shaftless propulsion system are completely immersed in water and are not connected directly to the hull of the undersea marine vehicle. In addition the stators and rotor of the shaftless propulsion system of the present invention are attached to the outside of the hull of the undersea marine vehicle by an attachment mechanism. Because the hull compresses under the hydrostatic pressure encountered during a dive the attachment mechanism must be sufficiently flexible adjustable and or self adjusting to keep the propulsion system attached to the undersea marine vehicle provide for forward and reverse thrust and do so while still permitting the relative motion of the hull compression to take place without adversely affecting vehicle propulsion.

In the shaftless propulsion system of the present invention one or more stators are secured to a sleeve that is external to the hull of the undersea marine vehicle. A rotor with rotor bearing is fit over the external sleeve. A collar and collar hub attached to the sleeve secure the stator into position and prevents the rotor stator assembly from coming apart when the rotor is rotating. The collar fits over stanchions that are connected to the hull. The stanchions are fit with springs between the collar and the edge points of the stanchion. The spring loading allows the hull of the undersea marine vehicle to compress without significant compression of the collar occurring. This arrangement enables the undersea marine vehicle to dive safely without the stator and rotor diameters shrinking as the hull of the undersea marine vehicle compresses.

In one general aspect a shaftless external propulsion system includes a sleeve configured to be externally mounted over a hull of a marine vehicle and a rotor and first stator mounted on the sleeve. The rotor includes a rotor hub that cooperates with a rotor bearing to enable the rotor to rotate about the sleeve. The rotor further includes rotor blades attached to the rotor hub. The rotor and first stator are disposed between a collar located at one end of the sleeve and a collar hub located at the opposite end of the sleeve.

Implementations may include one or more of the following. For example the sleeve may be removably attached to a stanchion mounted on an external surface of the hull. The stanchion may include a stanchion protrusion. The sleeve may be removably attached to the stanchion by removably attaching the collar hub to the stanchion protrusion. The collar hub may further include a collar hub bracket and the collar hub bracket may be removably attached to the stanchion protrusion. For example the collar hub bracket may be removably attached to the stanchion protrusion by a bolt inserted through an aperture of the collar hub bracket and an aperture of the stanchion protrusion. In other implementations the collar hub and or the collar may be removably attached to the sleeve. Further implementations may include a fairing.

In another implementation a second stator is mounted on the sleeve and the rotor is disposed between the first stator and the second stator. In addition the rotor the first stator and the second stator are disposed between a collar located at one end of the sleeve and a collar hub located at the opposite end of the sleeve.

In yet another implementation a first elastic member is positioned on a first surface of the stanchion protrusion between the first surface of the stanchion protrusion and a first surface of the collar hub bracket. The first elastic member may be for example a spring. A first damping mechanism may be positioned on the first surface of the stanchion protrusion between the first surface of the stanchion protrusion and the first surface of the collar hub bracket.

Furthermore a second elastic member may be located on a second surface of the stanchion protrusion opposite from first surface of the stanchion protrusion and positioned between the second surface of the stanchion protrusion and a second surface of the collar hub bracket. The second elastic member may be for example a spring. A second damping mechanism may be positioned on the second surface of the stanchion protrusion between the second surface of the stanchion protrusion and the second surface of the collar hub bracket.

In another general aspect a shaftless external propulsion system includes a means for supporting a propulsor where the support means is configured to be externally mounted over a hull of a marine vehicle. The system also includes a means for mounting the support means over the hull of the marine vehicle and a propulsor. The propulsor includes a rotor and a first stator mounted on the support means. The rotor includes a rotor hub that cooperates with a rotor bearing to enable the rotor to rotate about the support means. The rotor further includes rotor blades attached to the rotor hub. The rotor and the first stator are disposed between a first means for containment of the rotor and first stator located at one end of the support means and a second means for containment of the rotor and first stator located at the opposite end of the support means.

Implementations may include one or more of the following. For example the mounting means may further include a means for compensating for hull contraction during a dive of the marine vehicle.

In another general aspect an attachment mechanism for attaching a shaftless external propulsion system to a hull of a marine vehicle includes an attachment surface bracket configured to be attached to an attachment surface of a shaftless external propulsion system. The shaftless external propulsion system is configured to be externally mounted over a hull of a marine vehicle. The attachment surface bracket is configured to be removably attached to a stanchion protrusion of a stanchion mounted on an external surface of the hull by a bolt inserted through an aperture of the attachment surface bracket and an aperture of the stanchion protrusion.

Implementations may include one or more of the following. For example a first elastic member may be positioned on a first surface of the stanchion protrusion between the first surface of the stanchion protrusion and a first surface of the attachment surface bracket. Also a second elastic member may be located on a second surface of the stanchion protrusion that is opposite from the first surface of the stanchion protrusion and positioned between the second surface of the stanchion protrusion and a second surface of the collar hub bracket.

The present invention has numerous advantages including but not limited to enabling the propulsor to be attached externally to the hull such that it can be removed for repairs without drydocking the undersea marine vehicle enabling both the stator and the rotor to exist in the ocean environment such that their radii do not shrink or compress when the undersea marine vehicle dives nor do their radii expand when the undersea marine vehicle surfaces and interfacing the collar with stanchions that are connected to the hull of the undersea marine vehicle such that the hull radius can shrink under the compression of diving conditions and expand as the undersea marine vehicle rises toward the surface yet the external propulsor will remain attached to the undersea marine vehicle.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a shaftless propulsion system that can operate such that the dimensions of the components of the shaftless propulsion system are independent of undersea marine vehicle depth. It is another object of the present invention to provide a shaftless propulsion system that has lower costs associated with the installation removal repair and replacement of the shaftless propulsion system. It is a further object of the present invention to provide a shaftless propulsion system where the installation removal repair and replacement of the shaftless propulsion system can be accomplished without drydocking the undersea marine vehicle.

Other objects features and advantages will be apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

As shown in a shaftless propulsion system includes a rotor a first stator and a second stator each mounted on a sleeve . The rotor includes a rotor hub and rotor blades . A rotor bearing enables the rotor hub to rotate about the sleeve . The rotor blades act to propel the shaftless propulsion system as the rotor rotates about the sleeve .

The rotor first stator and second stator are mounted between a collar formed at one end of the sleeve and a collar hub attached to the opposite end of the sleeve . The collar and collar hub assist in holding the rotor first stator and second stator in place on the sleeve . The collar hub may be attached to the sleeve using a variety of known techniques including screws bolts or welding. In some implementations the collar hub may be formed as part of the sleeve . In other implementations the collar is removable from the sleeve and may be attached to the sleeve using known techniques. Also in some implementations the second stator may be omitted.

As shown in the shaftless propulsion system is externally mounted on the marine vehicle. In particular the shaftless propulsion system is mounted to stanchions fixed to the hull of the marine vehicle. Although two stanchions are shown more stanchions could be used or a single stanchion could be used to mount the shaftless propulsion system to the hull . The stanchions must be seaworthy. The stanchions may include a curtain or skirt designed to reduce turbulent flow noise. In other implementations other known methods could be used to externally mount the shaftless propulsion system to the hull . The shaftless propulsion system is not integrated with the hull but rather is designed to fit over the external surface of the hull .

Electrical power is supplied to the shaftless propulsion system by electrical cables not shown extending through the hull . Cable openings must be properly sealed to prevent leaks from occurring. Known methods such as compressible tubing may be used to prevent leaks in the hull penetrations. In one implementation electrical power is supplied by electrical cables that are run through one or more of the stanchions and connect to the shaftless propulsion system . Electrical power may be supplied to the first stator the second stator or the rotor of the shaftless propulsion system or to various combinations thereof. Usually electric power will be supplied to the first stator and the second stator and the rotor will be powered by magnetic induction.

In some implementations one or more streamlined pieces not shown may be added in front of i.e. forward of and or to the rear of i.e. aft of various components of the shaftless propulsion system in order to streamline the flow. For example such streamlined pieces may be added to streamline the flow over stanchions and collar in order to avoid vortices development and subsequent noise generation. In one implementation one or more tapered pieces of for example a triangular or approximately triangular cross sectional shape also known as a fairing can be fastened to the hull forward of stanchions and and aft of collar . These fairings can be made in sections with a gap between the hull and the fairing to account for the hull s radial movement with changing depth and also for ease of installation. The overall shape of these fairings may be a hollowed cone through the height center axis.

To attach the collar hub to the stanchion the collar hub bracket arms of the collar hub bracket are positioned over the stanchion protrusion such the stanchion protrusion is between bracket arms . Collar hub bracket arm is positioned over one face of the stanchion protrusion and collar hub bracket arm is positioned over another face of the stanchion protrusion . As shown the face is on the opposite side of the stanchion protrusion from face .

Elastic member is positioned between collar hub bracket arm and face of the stanchion protrusion . Elastic member is positioned between collar hub bracket and face of the stanchion protrusion . Elastic members may be for example springs such as coil springs or leaf springs. Elastic members allow the hull to compress during a dive without significant compression of the collar hub or other components of the shaftless propulsion system . Thus the marine vehicle may dive without shrinkage of the stator or rotor diameters as the hull compresses.

A bolt is positioned through the aperture of collar hub bracket arm the aperture of stanchion protrusion and the aperture of collar hub bracket arm . The bolt also may be positioned through elastic members . The bolt is secured by a washer and nut .

Some implementations may eliminate collar hub bracket arm and elastic member . The collar hub bracket arms may be attached to the stanchion protrusion using other known methods. At least one damping mechanism such as damping mechanisms and may be used in conjunction with or in place of elastic members .

Referring to when the marine vehicle is at a first depth there is a first gap G between the hull of the marine vehicle and the rotor of the externally mounted shaftless propulsion system that is due at least in part to compression of the hull at the first depth. The rotor blades and control surfaces also are shown. Referring to when the marine vehicle is at a second depth there is a second gap G between the hull of the marine vehicle and the rotor of the externally mounted shaftless propulsion system that is due at least in part to compression of the hull at the second depth. In this example the second depth is greater than the first depth and the second gap G is larger than the first gap G because the hull is compressed to a greater degree at the second depth than at the first depth. However the diameter of the rotor is not changed because the shaftless propulsion system is completely surrounded by seawater external to the hull of the marine vehicle due to the external mounting of the shaftless propulsion system . The attachment mechanism attaching the shaftless propulsion system to the hull compensates for the shrinkage of the hull diameter as the depth increases.

A number of exemplary implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made. For example suitable results may be achieved if the steps of described techniques are performed in a different order and or if components in a described component system architecture or devices are combined in a different manner and or replaced or supplemented by other components. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

