---

title: Case structure replacement in a data flow diagram
abstract: System and method for generating a data flow diagram. A first case structure may be specified. Each case of the first case structure that includes a respective plurality of input bound data flow nodes may be partitioned into one or more data flow diagram portions. The first case structure may be replaced with a first conditional structure and one or more second conditional structures. The first conditional structure may be operable to select one or more of the plurality of input bound data flow diagram portions in accordance with the conditions of the first case structure. The one or more second conditional structures may be operable to select at least one output from the plurality of input bound data flow diagram portions in accordance with the conditions of the first case structure. The partitioning and replacing may be performed automatically in response to specification of the first case.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08176479&OS=08176479&RS=08176479
owner: National Instruments Corporation
number: 08176479
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070720
---
This application claims benefit of priority of U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60 820 063 titled Hierarchical Code Generation for Simulation Subsystems filed Jul. 21 2006 whose inventor was Kevin M. Hogan.

The present invention relates to the field of graphical programming and more particularly to the generation of input bound data flow diagrams from non input bound data flow diagrams.

Various graphical programming environments now exist which allow a user to construct a graphical program or graphical diagram also referred to as a block diagram. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 901 221 4 914 568 5 291 587 5 301 301 and 5 301 336 among others to Kodosky et al. disclose a graphical programming environment which enables a user to easily and intuitively create a graphical program. Graphical programming environments such as that disclosed in Kodosky et al. can be considered a higher and more intuitive way in which to interact with a computer. A graphically based programming environment can be represented at a level above text based high level programming languages such as C Basic Java etc.

A user may assemble a graphical program by selecting various icons or nodes which represent desired functionality and then connecting the nodes together to create the program. The nodes or icons may be connected by lines representing data flow between the nodes control flow or execution flow. Thus the block diagram may include a plurality of interconnected icons such that the diagram created graphically displays a procedure or method for accomplishing a certain result such as manipulating one or more input variables and or producing one or more output variables. In response to the user constructing a diagram or graphical program using the block diagram editor data structures and or program instructions may be automatically constructed which characterize an execution procedure that corresponds to the displayed procedure. The graphical program may be compiled or interpreted by a computer.

A graphical program may have a graphical user interface. For example in creating a graphical program a user may create a front panel or user interface panel. The front panel may include various graphical user interface elements or front panel objects such as user interface controls and or indicators that represent or display the respective input and output that will be used by the graphical program and may include other icons which represent devices being controlled.

Thus graphical programming has become a powerful tool available to programmers. Graphical programming environments such as National Instruments Corporation s LabVIEW product have become very popular. Tools such as LabVIEW which embodies the G graphical programming language have greatly increased the productivity of programmers and increasing numbers of programmers are using graphical programming environments to develop their software applications. In particular graphical programming tools are being used for test and measurement data acquisition process control man machine interface MMI supervisory control and data acquisition SCADA applications modeling simulation image processing machine vision applications and motion control among others.

Different graphical programming systems may use different models of computation e.g. different semantics to specify or represent the functionality of the graphical programs. Examples of graphical program semantics include homogenous data flow heterogeneous data flow synchronous data flow timed synchronous data flow state machine cyclostatic data flow dynamic data flow input bound data flow and various combinations among others. A graphical programming system that facilitates the development of graphical programs and data flow diagrams with different models of computation or type of data flow semantics have been described in U.S. application Ser. No. 10 869 572 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 506 304 titled Graphical Data Flow Programming Environment With First Model Of Computation That Includes A Structure Supporting Second Model Of Computation filed Jun. 16 2004 whose inventors were Gregory . Morrow John C. Limroth Jeffrey L. Kodosky Steven W. Rogers Kevin Hogan and Hugo A. Andrade which is hereby incorporated by reference.

One important computational application involving different models of computation is a simulation computation. A simulation computation generally involves computing the values of state variables according to a simulation model. The state of the simulation model is computed at a sequence of time steps i.e. t t t . . . t whereby the state of the model at time tdepends on the state of the model at time t. For states that vary continuously the rate of change of a state variable X at a time t may be given in dependence to X t by a function f such that dX dt f X t which describes an integrating function. For discrete states the computation similarly involves a formula to compute the value for the state at a new time step given its previous value. Computational algorithms and analytical methods for developing simulation models and state variables are well known in the art.

In a graphical programming environment subsystems representative nodes in the graphical program that may support a different model of computation may be employed for developing a simulation model. One example of such a subsystem is a simulation diagram in LabVIEW which is implemented in the G graphical data flow programming language simply referred to herein as the G language . Some graphical programming languages such as G operate according to a data flow semantic or model of computation in which a node may not execute or provide output unless all input data to the node are present. As used herein this type of data flow is referred to as input bound data flow IBDF .

A simulation diagram may be a type of data flow diagram but may not adhere strictly to the input bound data flow model of computation normally applied in the G language. For example there may be nodes that execute or provide output whether or not all their inputs are present which is behavior inconsistent with the input bound data flow semantics of the G language. This type of data flow is referred to herein as non input bound data flow NIBDF . A data flow diagram that only includes IBDF nodes is referred to as an IBDF diagram.

In some applications it may be desirable to convert a non input bound data flow diagram into an input bound data flow diagram in which case each NIBDF node in the diagram may be replaced with two or more IBDF nodes that are operable to provide the functionality of the original NIBDF node. For example in an example simulation application a generic integration block or node of a simulation subsystem representing the basic function for determining state variables in a simulation model may be equivalently described by two separate asynchronous G language functions a get state function for returning the current value of X t and a set state function for determining the current value of dX dt . This type of equivalence permits the conversion of a NIBDF subsystem into an IBDF diagram e.g. wherein each integration block or node may be replaced with two independent G language IBDF function nodes e.g. IBDF nodes that may be called separately. Thus any NIBDF node may be replaced with two or more IBDF nodes with suitable functionality.

As noted above some nodes in a data flow diagram referred to as subsystem nodes may represent other diagrams e.g. sub diagrams which may each include a plurality of interconnected nodes. Some of these subsystem nodes may be NIBDF nodes and thus may not operate according to IBDF semantics. For example an NIBDF subsystem node may include one or more NIBDF nodes in its sub diagram or the sub diagram may operate according to NIBDF semantics even if it includes no NIBDF nodes.

In order to create a homogenous IBDF diagram from a NIBDF diagram containing NIBDF subsystem nodes one known method is to inline all the subsystem nodes of the data flow diagram i.e. expand all subsystem nodes into their sub diagrams in the NIBDF diagram and convert any NIBDF nodes into IBDF nodes. In other words inlining refers to collapsing all the hierarchies in the data flow diagram into a collection of data flow nodes or operations on a single top level diagram.

While this method may be satisfactory for some simple algorithms more complex systems e.g. complex simulation systems which exhibit deep hierarchies of subsystems may result in a multitude of inlined nodes many of which may be duplicates or redundant. In fact for each level of hierarchy the number of inlined nodes may increase non linearly. This may result in a large and inefficient memory footprint and unwieldy structure resulting in higher maintenance requirements for larger more complex algorithms which incorporate many levels of hierarchy. In applications where the data flow diagrams are compiled for execution conversion of data flow diagrams do not adhere to the homogenous input bound data flow model of computation wiring contexts which may result from a direct expansion of simulation subsystems i.e. inlining the entire hierarchy may not represent an efficient representation of the data flow code and may compile particularly slowly with unnecessarily large memory consumption.

Thus improved systems and methods for creating homogeneous input bound data flow diagrams are desired.

Various embodiments of a system and method are presented for generating a data flow diagram more specifically for generating an input bound data flow diagram from a non input bound data flow diagram. In one embodiment a data flow diagram may be provided. The data flow diagram may be received from an external system e.g. over a network retrieved from memory or developed by the user. The data flow diagram may include one or more non input bound data flow nodes each with a respective functionality. At least one non input bound data flow node in the data flow diagram is a subsystem node representing a non input bound data flow sub diagram that includes a plurality of interconnected nodes. Note that as described above the non input bound data flow sub diagram may be a non input bound data flow entity because it includes at least one non input bound data flow node or the sub diagram may only include input bound data flow nodes but still be a non input bound data flow entity because of its structure i.e. its topology.

All non input bound data flow nodes in the data flow diagram may be converted into input bound data flow nodes to generate an input bound data flow diagram i.e. a data flow diagram that includes no non input bound data flow nodes. The conversion may include processing each non input bound data flow node in the data flow diagram. For example the non input bound data flow node may be analyzed to determine two or more input bound data flow nodes executable to perform the functionality of the non input bound data flow where each of the two or more input bound data flow nodes is independently callable i.e. two or more input bound data flow nodes are independent. Moreover for each non input bound data flow node that is a subsystem node the analyzing may include partitioning the non input bound data flow sub diagram into a plurality of input bound data flow sub diagrams where each of the input bound data flow sub diagrams operates according to input bound data flow semantics without changing data dependencies of the non input bound data flow sub diagram and where the determining the two or more input bound data flow nodes includes determining two or more input bound data flow nodes respectively representing the plurality of input bound data flow sub diagrams. Thus input bound data flow nodes may be determined that correspond to the non input bound data flow node.

In some embodiments the determining of the two or more input bound data flow nodes may include if any of the two or more input bound data flow nodes have not already been created the method may include creating the input bound data flow nodes that have not already been created based on the functionality of the non input bound data flow node and storing the created input bound data flow nodes and if any of the two or more input bound data flow nodes have already been created the already created input bound data flow nodes may be retrieved. In some embodiments creating the two or more input bound data flow nodes may be performed automatically while in other embodiments creating the two or more input bound data flow nodes may be performed manually e.g. by a user specifying or creating the node in a graphical programming development environment. The two or more input bound data flow nodes may be included in the input bound data flow diagram in lieu of the non input bound data flow node. In other words the determined two or more input bound data flow nodes placed or inserted into the input bound data flow diagram in instead of the non input bound data flow node.

Finally the generated the input bound data flow diagram may be stored e.g. in a memory medium. Note that the input bound data flow diagram is characterized by an input bound data flow model of computation since no non input bound data flow nodes remain in the converted generated diagram. It is still possible however that some subsets of the diagram may have non input bound data flow behavior but such behavior is due to the architecture or arrangement of the nodes not due to the nodes themselves.

Note further that because of the partitioning and determining of nodes representing the input bound data flow sub diagrams i.e. representing the partitions above the number of input bound data flow nodes in the generated diagram is less than would be the case were the input bound data flow sub diagrams left as is. Thus while the respective replacement of non input bound data flow nodes with respective two or more input bound nodes may substantially increase the total number of nodes in the diagram the partitioning and substituting of input bound data flow nodes for the input bound data flow sub diagrams serves to ameliorate this increase in total number of nodes.

In some embodiments the conversion may be automatic. In other words the analyzing and including may be performed automatically e.g. via execution of program instructions. However in other embodiments at least some user input may be required to perform some of the method elements described.

In some embodiments the non input bound data flow sub diagram may initially include at least one non input bound data flow node in which case analyzing the non input bound data flow node may further include performing the analyzing and including for each non input bound data flow node in the non input bound data flow sub diagram. In other words these nodes in the sub diagrams may also be converted in the same manner prior to the partitioning of the sub diagram. More generally the data flow diagram may be hierarchical with sub diagrams at any of various levels.

In preferred embodiments the partitioning may be performed based on input and output data dependencies of the interconnected nodes of the non input bound data flow sub diagram. Thus in order to avoid introducing new data dependencies nodes may be grouped into portions or partitions of the sub diagram according to their dataflow dependencies. For example nodes have a dataflow dependence on the input to a subsystem sub diagram if there is a direct dataflow path between the input to the subsystem and an input to the node. An output of the subsystem has a dataflow dependency on a node if there is a direct dataflow path between an output of the node and the original output of the subsystem. Once these dataflow dependencies are computed nodes that depend on the same set of subsystem inputs may be grouped together. Alternatively nodes on which the same set of subsystem outputs depend may be grouped together. In one embodiment both strategies for grouping nodes into clumps may be used and the strategy which results in the fewest partitions chosen.

In some embodiments a more sophisticated analysis of dependencies may result in a more efficient partitioning strategy. For example in one embodiment the partitioning may include computing a feed through map for the non input bound data flow sub diagram indicating dependencies of each output of the non input bound data flow sub diagram upon inputs of the non input bound data flow sub diagram and analyzing the feed through map to determine at least two of the input bound data flow sub diagrams that if merged would not produce any new data dependencies of the outputs of the non input bound data flow sub diagram upon inputs of the non input bound data flow sub diagram. The at least two of the input bound data flow sub diagrams may then be merged. Note that such merging of input bound data flow sub diagrams decreases the number of partitions and thus the number of corresponding input bound data flow nodes needed to represent the input bound data flow sub diagrams in the top level diagram i.e. the data flow diagram.

Given the strategy for grouping nodes into partitions above the potential number of partitions may be reduced by reducing the number of inputs or outputs to the subsystem. This may be achieved by treating subsystem inputs or outputs which have the same dataflow dependencies as equivalent. That is subsystem inputs with equivalent sets of dependent subsystem outputs can be treated as the same input for the purposes of the partitioning algorithm. Similarly subsystem outputs which are dependent on equivalent sets of subsystem inputs may be treated as the same output.

In preferred embodiments the conversion of non input data flow nodes to input bound data flow nodes may include performing the partitioning and including for each non input bound data flow subsystem node in the data flow diagram in a recursive manner. In various embodiments this recursion may be performed in a depth first manner or alternatively in a breadth first manner such techniques being well known in the art of graph theory. In a preferred embodiment the recursion is performed depth first starting at the bottom the deepest nodes in the hierarchy i.e. leaf nodes . For example one or more leaf subsystems may be selected for processing in a parallel or sequential manner where each non input bound data flow node e.g. indirect API block may be decomposed or expanded into its corresponding functional nodes e.g. G language input bound data flow equivalent functions. Note that direct API blocks i.e. input bound primitive or atomic data flow nodes may directly link to their G language equivalents and may not require decomposition. Note also that in this embodiment since the initial processing operates on leaf subsystems no further subsystems are embedded in the simulation diagrams at this level in the hierarchy. Thus the operations may convert a leaf node simulation subsystem into executable graphical program code e.g. G language code i.e. a block diagram of a virtual instrument.

Thus an input bound data flow diagram i.e. a data flow diagram whose nodes are all input bound data flow nodes may be generated from a non input bound data flow diagram i.e. a data flow diagram whose nodes may include non input bound data flow nodes .

While embodiments described above relate to various nodes and subsystems e.g. subdiagrams or subVIs it should be noted that similar methods may apply to any graphical structures which contain code. For example similar methods may apply to loop or iteration structures in place memory structures target execution icon structures case structures etc.

While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and are herein described in detail. It should be understood however that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

The following references are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety as though fully and completely set forth herein 

U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 820 063 titled Hierarchical Code Generation for Simulation Subsystems filed Jul. 21 2006.

U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 571 205 titled Graphical Data Flow Programming Environment with First Model of Computation that Includes a Structure Supporting Second Model of Computation filed May 14 2004.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 914 568 titled Graphical System for Modeling a Process and Associated Method issued on Apr. 3 1990.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 481 741 titled Method and Apparatus for Providing Attribute Nodes in a Graphical Data Flow Environment .

U.S. Pat. No. 6 219 628 titled System and Method for Converting Graphical Programs Into Hardware Implementations filed Mar. 22 2000.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 219 628 titled System and Method for Configuring an Instrument to Perform Measurement Functions Utilizing Conversion of Graphical Programs into Hardware Implementations filed Aug. 18 1997.

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2001 0020291 Ser. No. 09 745 023 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 210 117 titled System and Method for Programmatically Generating a Graphical Program in Response to Program Information filed Dec. 20 2000.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 043 693 titled System and Method for Programmatically Generating a Second Graphical Program Based on a First Graphical Program filed Dec. 20 2000.

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2003 0172369 Ser. No. 10 094 198 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 216 334 titled Self Determining Behavior Node For Use In Creating A Graphical Program filed Mar. 8 2002.

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0257194 Ser. No. 10 869 572 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 506 304 titled Graphical Data Flow Programming Environment With First Model Of Computation That Includes A Structure Supporting Second Model Of Computation filed Jun. 16 2004.

Memory Medium Any of various types of memory devices or storage devices. The term memory medium is intended to include an installation medium e.g. a CD ROM floppy disks or tape device a computer system memory or random access memory such as DRAM DDR RAM SRAM EDO RAM Rambus RAM etc. or a non volatile memory such as a magnetic media e.g. a hard drive or optical storage. The memory medium may comprise other types of memory as well or combinations thereof. In addition the memory medium may be located in a first computer in which the programs are executed or may be located in a second different computer which connects to the first computer over a network such as the Internet. In the latter instance the second computer may provide program instructions to the first computer for execution. The term memory medium may include two or more memory mediums which may reside in different locations e.g. in different computers that are connected over a network.

Carrier Medium a memory medium as described above as well as signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a bus network and or a wireless link.

Programmable Hardware Element includes various types of programmable hardware reconfigurable hardware programmable logic or field programmable devices FPDs such as one or more FPGAs Field Programmable Gate Arrays or one or more PLDs Programmable Logic Devices such as one or more Simple PLDs SPLDs or one or more Complex PLDs CPLDs or other types of programmable hardware. A programmable hardware element may also be referred to as reconfigurable logic .

Medium includes one or more of a memory medium carrier medium and or programmable hardware element encompasses various types of mediums that can either store program instructions data structures or can be configured with a hardware configuration program.

Program the term program is intended to have the full breadth of its ordinary meaning. The term program includes 1 a software program which may be stored in a memory and is executable by a processor or 2 a hardware configuration program useable for configuring a programmable hardware element.

Software Program the term software program is intended to have the full breadth of its ordinary meaning and includes any type of program instructions code script and or data or combinations thereof that may be stored in a memory medium and executed by a processor. Exemplary software programs include programs written in text based programming languages such as C C Pascal Fortran Cobol Java assembly language etc. graphical programs programs written in graphical programming languages assembly language programs programs that have been compiled to machine language scripts and other types of executable software. A software program may comprise two or more software programs that interoperate in some manner.

Hardware Configuration Program a program e.g. a netlist or bit file that can be used to program or configure a programmable hardware element.

Graphical Program A program comprising a plurality of interconnected nodes or icons wherein the plurality of interconnected nodes or icons visually indicate functionality of the program.

The following provides examples of various aspects of graphical programs. The following examples and discussion are not intended to limit the above definition of graphical program but rather provide examples of what the term graphical program encompasses 

The nodes in a graphical program may be connected in one or more of a data flow control flow and or execution flow format. The nodes may also be connected in a signal flow format which is a subset of data flow.

Exemplary graphical program development environments which may be used to create graphical programs include LabVIEW DasyLab DiaDem and Matrixx SystemBuild from National Instruments Simulink from the MathWorks VEE from Agilent WiT from Coreco Vision Program Manager from PPT Vision SoftWIRE from Measurement Computing Sanscript from Northwoods Software Khoros from Khoral Research SnapMaster from HEM Data VisSim from Visual Solutions ObjectBench by SES Scientific and Engineering Software and VisiDAQ from Advantech among others.

The term graphical program includes models or block diagrams created in graphical modeling environments wherein the model or block diagram comprises interconnected nodes or icons that visually indicate operation of the model or block diagram exemplary graphical modeling environments include Simulink SystemBuild VisSim Hypersignal Block Diagram etc.

A graphical program may be represented in the memory of the computer system as data structures and or program instructions. The graphical program e.g. these data structures and or program instructions may be compiled or interpreted to produce machine language that accomplishes the desired method or process as shown in the graphical program.

Input data to a graphical program may be received from any of various sources such as from a device unit under test a process being measured or controlled another computer program a database or from a file. Also a user may input data to a graphical program or virtual instrument using a graphical user interface e.g. a front panel.

A graphical program may optionally have a GUI associated with the graphical program. In this case the plurality of interconnected nodes are often referred to as the block diagram portion of the graphical program.

A graphical program that has a homogenous model of computation is a graphical program which is single rate i.e. where the semantics may specify a single rate execution of graphical program elements. In other words each of the graphical program elements in the graphical program preferably has the same rate of execution e.g. each element may execute the same number of times per execution of the graphical program e.g. each element may produce and consume the same number of tokens per execution.

Node In the context of a graphical program an element that may be included in a graphical program. A node may have an associated icon that represents the node in the graphical program as well as underlying code or data that implements functionality of the node. Exemplary nodes include function nodes terminal nodes structure nodes etc. Nodes may be connected together in a graphical program by connection icons or wires.

Data Flow Graphical Program or Data Flow Diagram A graphical program or diagram comprising a plurality of interconnected nodes wherein the connections between the nodes indicate that data produced by one node is used by another node. In an input bound data flow diagram i.e. a data flow diagram with an input bound data flow model of computation no node may execute or produce an output until all inputs are present whereas a non input bound data flow diagram may allow nodes to execute or produce output without all inputs being present.

Model of Computation a formal description that includes a syntax and rules for computing behavior semantics described by the syntax used to specify the semantics of computation and concurrency. Examples of models of computation include data flow control flow state machine e.g. finite state machine actor parallel random access machine continuous time spatial temporal synchronous reactive discrete event cycle driven synchronous message passing asynchronous message passing rendezvous Turing machine tagged signal Petri nets homogenous heterogeneous single rate multi rate and combinations thereof among others. Examples of different data flow models of computation include homogenous data flow heterogeneous data flow synchronous data flow timed synchronous data flow cyclostatic data flow dynamic data flow input bound data flow and non input bound data flow among others. Some data flow models of computation may support explicit feedback loops where for example output from a graphical program element may be provide as input to the same element either directly or via one or more other elements.

For example the G graphical programming language used in the LabVIEW graphical program development environment provided by National Instruments Corporation supports a homogeneous i.e. single rate data flow model of computation that does not include explicit feedback loops. In contrast Simulink provided by The MathWorks Inc. supports a heterogeneous multi rate data flow model of computation that includes explicit feedback loops. Similarly G generally operates according to input bound data flow semantics where no node executes until all its inputs are present whereas some other graphical programming languages e.g. those directed to simulation may allow a node to produce an output without all inputs being present.

Graphical User Interface this term is intended to have the full breadth of its ordinary meaning. The term Graphical User Interface is often abbreviated to GUI . A GUI may comprise only one or more input GUI elements only one or more output GUI elements or both input and output GUI elements.

The following provides examples of various aspects of GUIs. The following examples and discussion are not intended to limit the ordinary meaning of GUI but rather provide examples of what the term graphical user interface encompasses 

A GUI may comprise a single window having one or more GUI Elements or may comprise a plurality of individual GUI Elements or individual windows each having one or more GUI Elements wherein the individual GUI Elements or windows may optionally be tiled together.

A GUI may be associated with a graphical program. In this instance various mechanisms may be used to connect GUI Elements in the GUI with nodes in the graphical program. For example when Input Controls and Output Indicators are created in the GUI corresponding nodes e.g. terminals may be automatically created in the graphical program or block diagram. Alternatively the user can place terminal nodes in the block diagram which may cause the display of corresponding GUI Elements front panel objects in the GUI either at edit time or later at run time. As another example the GUI may comprise GUI Elements embedded in the block diagram portion of the graphical program.

Front Panel A Graphical User Interface that includes input controls and output indicators and which enables a user to interactively control or manipulate the input being provided to a program and view output of the program while the program is executing.

A front panel is a type of GUI. A front panel may be associated with a graphical program as described above.

In an instrumentation application the front panel can be analogized to the front panel of an instrument. In an industrial automation application the front panel can be analogized to the MMI Man Machine Interface of a device. The user may adjust the controls on the front panel to affect the input and view the output on the respective indicators.

Graphical User Interface Element an element of a graphical user interface such as for providing input or displaying output. Exemplary graphical user interface elements comprise input controls and output indicators.

Input Control a graphical user interface element for providing user input to a program. Exemplary input controls comprise dials knobs sliders input text boxes etc.

Output Indicator a graphical user interface element for displaying output from a program. Exemplary output indicators include charts graphs gauges output text boxes numeric displays etc. An output indicator is sometimes referred to as an output control .

Computer System any of various types of computing or processing systems including a personal computer system PC mainframe computer system workstation network appliance Internet appliance personal digital assistant PDA television system grid computing system or other device or combinations of devices. In general the term computer system can be broadly defined to encompass any device or combination of devices having at least one processor that executes instructions from a memory medium.

Measurement Device includes instruments data acquisition devices smart sensors and any of various types of devices that are operable to acquire and or store data. A measurement device may also optionally be further operable to analyze or process the acquired or stored data. Examples of a measurement device include an instrument such as a traditional stand alone box instrument a computer based instrument instrument on a card or external instrument a data acquisition card a device external to a computer that operates similarly to a data acquisition card a smart sensor one or more DAQ or measurement cards or modules in a chassis an image acquisition device such as an image acquisition or machine vision card also called a video capture board or smart camera a motion control device a robot having machine vision and other similar types of devices. Exemplary stand alone instruments include oscilloscopes multimeters signal analyzers arbitrary waveform generators spectroscopes and similar measurement test or automation instruments.

A measurement device may be further operable to perform control functions e.g. in response to analysis of the acquired or stored data. For example the measurement device may send a control signal to an external system such as a motion control system or to a sensor in response to particular data. A measurement device may also be operable to perform automation functions i.e. may receive and analyze data and issue automation control signals in response.

Note that in the descriptions provided herein data flow diagram is a superset of graphical data flow program . For example an executable data flow diagram may be considered a graphical data flow diagram. It should be noted however that in some embodiments a data flow diagram may not be executable but merely illustrative. Note that as used herein unless otherwise indicated graphical program refers to a graphical data flow program which is an executable or interpretable data flow diagram. Note further that in various embodiments an executable data flow diagram may be run by interpreting the diagram at runtime may be compiled to generate machine executable code and or may be converted to some other programming language e.g. C or C then compiled and executed as desired.

As shown in the computer system may include a display device operable to display the data flow diagram as the data flow diagram is created and or executed. The display device may also be operable to display a graphical user interface or front panel of the data flow diagram during execution of the data flow diagram. The graphical user interface may comprise any type of graphical user interface e.g. depending on the computing platform.

The computer system may include a memory medium s on which one or more computer programs or software components according to one embodiment may be stored. For example the memory medium may store one or more graphical programs or other types of programs which are executable to perform the methods described herein. Also the memory medium may store a graphical programming development environment application used to create and or execute such graphical programs and or data flow diagrams. The memory medium may also store operating system software as well as other software for operation of the computer system. Various embodiments further include receiving or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a carrier medium.

In one embodiment the graphical user interface of the graphical program may be displayed on a display device of the computer system and the block diagram may execute on a device connected to the computer system . The device may include a programmable hardware element and or may include a processor and memory medium which may execute a real time operating system. In one embodiment the graphical program may be downloaded and executed on the device . For example an application development environment with which the graphical program is associated may provide support for downloading a graphical program for execution on the device in a real time system.

In some embodiments the methods described herein may involve performing test and or measurement functions controlling and or modeling instrumentation or industrial automation hardware modeling and simulation functions e.g. modeling or simulating a device or product being developed or tested etc. Exemplary test applications where the data flow diagram e.g. graphical program may be used include hardware in the loop testing and rapid control prototyping among others. It is noted that while the example of a data flow diagram in LabVIEW is presented as an example of a graphical data flow diagram having a non input bound data flow model of computation e.g. non input bound data flow nodes embedded within an input bound data flow model of computation input bound data flow nodes in other embodiments the models of computation may involve measurement and control of external signals and instrumentation interfaces.

However it is also noted that various embodiments of the methods described herein can be used for a plethora of applications and are not limited to the above applications. In other words applications discussed in the present description are exemplary only and other embodiments may include various types of systems. Some examples include the control of other types of devices such as multimedia devices video devices audio devices telephony devices Internet devices etc. as well as general purpose software applications such as word processing spreadsheets network control network monitoring financial applications games system analysis etc.

The one or more instruments may include a GPIB instrument and associated GPIB interface card a data acquisition board and associated signal conditioning circuitry a VXI instrument a PXI instrument a video device or camera and associated image acquisition or machine vision card a motion control device and associated motion control interface card and or one or more computer based instrument cards among other types of devices. The computer system may couple to and operate with one or more of these instruments. The instruments may be coupled to a unit under test UUT or process or may be coupled to receive field signals typically generated by transducers. The system may be used in a data acquisition and control application in a test and measurement application an image processing or machine vision application a process control application a man machine interface application a simulation application or a hardware in the loop validation application among others.

The one or more devices may include a data acquisition board and associated signal conditioning circuitry a PXI instrument a video device and associated image acquisition card a motion control device and associated motion control interface card a fieldbus device and associated fieldbus interface card a PLC Programmable Logic Controller a serial instrument and associated serial interface card or a distributed data acquisition system such as the Fieldpoint system available from National Instruments among other types of devices.

In one embodiment one or more data flow diagrams e.g. graphical programs may be created which are used in performing rapid control prototyping. Rapid Control Prototyping RCP generally refers to the process by which a user develops a control algorithm and quickly executes that algorithm on a target controller connected to a real system. The user may develop the control algorithm using a graphical program and the graphical program may execute on the controller e.g. on a computer system or other device. The computer system may be a platform that supports real time execution e.g. a device including a processor that executes a real time operating system RTOS or a device including a programmable hardware element.

In one embodiment one or more data flow diagrams e.g. graphical programs may be created which are used in performing Hardware in the Loop HIL simulation. Hardware in the Loop HIL refers to the execution of the plant model in real time to test operation of a real controller . For example once the controller has been designed it may be expensive and complicated to actually test the controller thoroughly in a real plant e.g. a real car. Thus the plant model implemented by a graphical program is executed in real time to make the real controller believe or operate as if it is connected to a real plant e.g. a real engine.

In the embodiments of B and B above one or more of the various devices may couple to each other over a network such as the Internet. In one embodiment the user operates to select a target device from a plurality of possible target devices for programming or configuration using a data flow diagram. Thus the user may create a data flow diagram on a computer and use execute the data flow diagram on that computer or deploy the data flow diagram to a target device for remote execution on the target device that is remotely located from the computer and coupled to the computer through a network.

Graphical software programs which perform data acquisition analysis and or presentation e.g. for measurement instrumentation control industrial automation modeling or simulation such as in the applications shown in may be referred to as virtual instruments.

The computer may include at least one central processing unit or CPU processor which is coupled to a processor or host bus . The CPU may be any of various types including an x86 processor e.g. a Pentium class a PowerPC processor a CPU from the SPARC family of RISC processors as well as others. A memory medium typically comprising RAM and referred to as main memory is coupled to the host bus by means of memory controller . The main memory may store the data flow diagram e.g. that may include multiple data flow semantics or that may not be a homogeneous input bound data flow diagram. The main memory may also store operating system software as well as other software for operation of the computer system.

The host bus may be coupled to an expansion or input output bus by means of a bus controller or bus bridge logic. The expansion bus may be the PCI Peripheral Component Interconnect expansion bus although other bus types can be used. The expansion bus includes slots for various devices such as described above. The computer further comprises a video display subsystem and hard drive coupled to the expansion bus .

As shown a device may also be connected to the computer. The device may include a processor and memory which may execute a real time operating system. The device may also or instead comprise a programmable hardware element. The computer system may be operable to deploy a data flow diagram e.g. a graphical program to the device for execution of the graphical program on the device . The deployed data flow diagram may take the form of graphical program instructions or data structures that directly represents the data flow diagram. Alternatively the deployed data flow diagram may take the form of text code e.g. C code generated from the data flow diagram. As another example the deployed data flow diagram may take the form of compiled code generated from either the data flow diagram or from text code that in turn was generated from the data flow diagram.

Simulations are an important application for graphical programming which as noted above are used increasingly in test design and control applications. Simulations may require non homogenous models of computation or data flow semantics for execution. In simulations implemented with data flow diagrams data flow diagram elements often represent respective components and or sub processes of a system or process. The data flow diagram elements also referred to as nodes in a simulation may require or at least substantially benefit from features or behaviors not supported by some graphical programming systems. Thus a simulation diagram may refer to a data flow diagram that can include at least one node or sub diagram that is non input bound.

For example as noted above the standard LabVIEW development environment including the G graphical programming language operates according to an input bound data flow model of computation or semantics. However in many simulations different components or processes may behave in such a way that the nodes representing these components or processes may need to operate according to a non input bound data flow model of computation or semantics. Note that while the below is directed to simulation diagrams nodes and subsystems the techniques presented are applicable to other diagrams nodes and subsystems as well simulations being but an exemplary application of one embodiment of the invention. In other words the management and conversion process described herein with respect to simulation diagrams nodes and subsystems with non input bound data flow semantics may be applied to other diagrams nodes and subsystems with non input bound data flow semantics in a similar manner.

In some applications both models of computation may be needed such as for example in a control application that includes a simulation of the process or system being controlled. In this example an input bound data flow model of computation or input bound data flow semantics such as with G graphical program code may be used to implement control functionality while a non input bound data flow model of computation such as with simulation nodes may be used to implement the simulation portion of the application. In one embodiment a first plurality of nodes e.g. graphical program or data flow diagram elements may comprise a simulation diagram where at least a subset of the first plurality of graphical program elements includes non input bound data flow nodes and where the simulation diagram implements a simulation model as described above.

The simulation diagram may utilize a set of semantics and execution properties that differ from an ordinary LabVIEW data flow diagram. Some differences between simulation diagrams and LabVIEW diagrams may include one or more of the following 

Feed through information A node in a simulation diagram e.g. a simulation sub diagram may require only a subset of its inputs in order to compute any given output. The set of inputs required to compute a given output are said to feed that output directly or to have direct feed through to the output. Inputs not required to compute that output have indirect feed through . Said another way direct feed through refers to a property of a graphical program element where all of the inputs to the graphical program element must be present or valid for the graphical program element to fire or execute whether or not each of the outputs for the graphical program element requires all of the inputs as is the case for example with LabVIEW diagram nodes which are input bound data flow nodes. In contrast indirect feed through refers to a property where the graphical program element generates an output as soon as the inputs needed for that output are present for example simulation diagram nodes. Thus indirect feed through nodes are non input bound data flow nodes.

The semantics for the simulation diagram may specify that a node may fire any given output as soon as it has received the inputs that have direct feed through to the output. Note that this is a key difference from the LabVIEW IBDF diagram which specifies that all inputs must be received before any output may be fired. Thus it may be necessary for the simulation diagram to have access to feed through information for each node. Although existing node types in LabVIEW may retain their existing behavior when placed in a simulation diagram i.e. that all inputs have direct feed through to all outputs the simulation diagram may preferably recognize various simulation primitives and simulation subsystems that may have indirect feed through from inputs to outputs.

Thus in various embodiments the simulation nodes may support direct feed through and indirect feed through for inputs and outputs of the simulation nodes. In other words in some embodiments at least one of the simulation nodes may comprise a plurality of inputs and a plurality of outputs where a first output of the plurality of outputs requires only a subset of the plurality of inputs and where the least one of the simulation nodes is operable to fire upon reception of the subset of the plurality of inputs to generate the first output.

In one embodiment a feed through mapping of inputs to outputs for the simulation nodes may be computed and stored. The computed feed through mapping may be useful in converting graphical code with one data flow semantics e.g. non input bound data flow semantics to graphical code with another data flow semantics e.g. input bound data flow semantics as described in detail below.

Feedback cycles Cycles may be allowed between outputs and inputs of a node in the simulation diagram that do not feed directly to each other. Thus in one embodiment at least one of the simulation nodes may support a feedback cycle between an output of the simulation node and an input of the simulation node e.g. an explicit feedback loop. For example in one embodiment at least one simulation node of the simulation nodes may support a feedback cycle between an output of the simulation node and an input of the simulation node if the input of the simulation node has indirect feed through to the output of the simulation node and or if the input of the simulation node corresponds to a different iteration than the output of the simulation node. In other words in this embodiment an explicit feedback loop from the output to the input of the node may be supported as long as the input is not directly required by the output and or as long as the input and the output are not for the same iteration. Note that cycles are not permitted in the G language syntax used for LabVIEW diagrams.

Placement of Simulation diagrams In one embodiment simulation diagrams may exist only as a root level diagram of a simulation loop or a simulation subsystem both described below .

In one embodiment one or more simulation parameters for the simulation diagram may be configured and stored where the configured one or more simulation parameters specify operation of the simulation diagram. In other words the one or more simulation parameters may determine the behavior of the simulation diagram subject to constraints imposed by the input bound data flow semantics.

In one embodiment one or more of the simulation nodes may comprise simulation primitives i.e. simulation nodes that do not represent a sub simulation diagram. Simulation primitives may preferably only be placed in a simulation diagram and may have indirect feed through properties as mentioned above. Key differences between simulation primitives and standard LabVIEW primitives may include 

Diagram placement Simulation primitives may only be placed in a simulation diagram while LabVIEW primitives may be used in standard LabVIEW block diagrams and in some cases may be used in a simulation diagram.

Execution A simulation primitive node may execute and outputs can fire before all inputs are received.

The types of nodes in a block diagram that includes a simulation diagram may include functional nodes G language nodes direct simulation primitives also referred to as direct API blocks and indirect simulation primitives also referred to as indirect API blocks . The direct simulation primitives are functional primitives which behave the same as their G language counterparts e.g. unary simulation functions. Indirect simulation primitives represent functions which may exhibit indirect feed through as described above. Note that the direct and indirect API block designation refers to the specific application programming interface that was developed for simulation diagrams. Thus a node may be a primitive node i.e. an API block may be a subsystem node which being a non input bound node represents a non input bound sub diagram or a subVI which being an input bound node represents an input bound sub diagram.

Note that in control block diagrams the graphical program elements or nodes may be referred to as blocks . In one embodiment the simulation primitives may comprise a diverse control block diagram blockset and may incorporate a number of features that are beyond the capabilities of standard LabVIEW subVIs. For example some simulation blocks e.g. an integrator block may have inputs that do not directly feed outputs. Examples of blocks include integrators transfer functions look up tables and gain blocks among others.

Some of the extended abilities that may be supported by simulation primitives may include one or more of configuration pages dynamic icons growing icons N ary operations numeric polymorphism e.g. both in terms of data type and or dimensionality custom pop up menu commands reversed block orientation and terminal feed through mappings among others.

Although simulation primitives are generally atomic in that they do not represent a sub simulation diagram also referred to as a simulation subsystem objects that access hidden simulation data may also be considered fundamental objects and may be treated specially. For example these objects may appear to the user as primitives and users may not be able to view the implementation directly from the simulation diagram. In some embodiments the generated code behind the objects may be made viewable however. 

In certain complex simulations the requirements of the mathematical computations implementing the simulation algorithm may be quite complex. Implementing a simulation diagram for a complex simulation may not be advantageous. Therefore embodiments of a modular hierarchical usage of simulation diagrams as simulation subsystems are described.

In one embodiment at least one of the simulation nodes represents a sub simulation diagram referred to as a simulation subsystem where the sub simulation diagram may comprise two or more additional simulation nodes. In other words a simulation node may represent a plurality of additional simulation nodes and thus may encapsulate a sub simulation diagram.

In one embodiment simulation subsystems implement sub models i.e. to hierarchically package portions of a simulation diagram in a modular form e.g. as a node within a simulation diagram. The graphical implementation may be considered analogous to a subVI node in LabVIEW. To the user a simulation subsystem may appear as a node whose root diagram is a simulation diagram and may be placed in LabVIEW subVI fashion in a simulation diagram. When placed in a simulation diagram these subsystems execute as if inlined in the simulation diagram and may execute elements of their diagram as inputs become available with indirect feedthrough. Thus simulation subsystems may provide a graphical shorthand i.e. a way to group code elements together into a single icon and reduce the complexity of simulation diagram code. Some differences between simulation subsystems and LabVIEW subVIs may include one or more of the following 

Diagram placement Simulation subsystems may only be used in a simulation diagram while LabVIEW primitives may be used in standard LabVIEW block diagrams and in some cases may be used in a simulation diagram.

Execution When run as a free standing VI the simulation subsystem may execute its diagram as if it were contained within a simulation loop thereby allowing the user to test and debug the diagram in isolation e.g. without having to be enclosed in a simulation loop. When run in a simulation loop e.g. as part of a larger data flow diagram simulation subsystems may execute as if inlined i.e. elements in the diagrams may execute as individual inputs become available.

Connection Feed through In addition to storing data types for inputs and outputs the simulation subsystems may compute and store a feed through mapping of inputs to outputs e.g. for the additional simulation nodes comprised in the sub simulation diagram.

Simulation Parameters Simulation subsystems store default simulation parameters for their respective simulation diagrams for use when they are run as free standing systems. However when embedded in another simulation diagram a parent diagram the subsystems may inherit parameter values from the parent diagram.

Thus in one embodiment one or more simulation parameters for the sub simulation diagram may be configured and stored where the configured one or more simulation parameters specify operation of the sub simulation diagram. In a preferred embodiment the two or more additional simulation nodes in the sub simulation diagram are operable to execute in the simulation diagram in an inlined manner. Thus the simulation subsystem node may utilize the feed through mapping for simulation nodes comprised in the simulation subsystem s sub simulation diagram to execute the simulation nodes appropriately e.g. with indirect feed through as described above.

In order to execute the code defined by a simulation diagram or other data flow diagram some form of executable code must be generated e.g. via an interpreter at runtime or a compiler. In the presently described methods a simulation diagram may be converted into a LabVIEW data flow diagram which may then be compiled or interpreted into a form that may be executed by a microprocessor. In one embodiment a companion data flow diagram may be coupled to or associated with the simulation diagram where the companion data flow diagram executes in lieu of or in conjunction with the simulation diagram. In one embodiment the companion diagram its automatic generation optional compilation and storage are all kept hidden from the user of the simulation diagram such that the companion diagram actually represents the executable code for the algorithm defined by the simulation. As described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 869 572 a simulation diagram representing code with a first data flow semantic or more generally a first model of computation may be converted into LabVIEW code with a second data flow semantic or more generally a second model of computation . Thus for example a simulation diagram representing a non input bound data flow model of computation may be converted or reduced to a collection of elements in a LabVIEW diagram which executes according to an input bound data flow model of computation. Although the actual execution occurs with input bound data flow the functionality of the executed code is equivalent to the non input bound data flow specified in the simulation diagram the conversion process creates all necessary elements and structures required for a correct conversion that executes the desired simulation functionality.

In one implementation the companion diagram is automatically generated and compiled when the simulation diagram is executed or saved. In one embodiment the term pre conversion may refer to the state of a simulation diagram which has not been converted i.e. the companion diagram has not been generated for it yet. The term post conversion may refer to the state of a simulation diagram when the companion diagram has been generated and optionally compiled. The term dirty may refer to the state of a companion diagram which has either not been converted at all or a state in which is it not consistent with what is represented on the simulation diagram for example after conversion if functional changes i.e. additions amendments deletions are made to the simulation diagram then the companion diagram may be set to the dirty state. In other words the dirty state indicates that the companion diagram is not up to date with respect to the simulation diagram. Note that while the simulation diagram may include non input bound data flow nodes or subsystems the companion diagram when up to date is an input bound data flow diagram where all nodes are input bound data flow nodes.

As noted above the simulation diagrams described above are exemplary versions of non input bound data flow diagrams and the methods and techniques described herein are broadly applicable to diagrams with non input bound elements are architectures and are not limited to simulation diagrams.

In a data flow diagram may be provided. The data flow diagram may be received from an external system e.g. over a network retrieved from memory or developed by the user. The data flow diagram may include one or more non input bound data flow nodes each with a respective functionality. At least one non input bound data flow node in the data flow diagram is a subsystem node representing a non input bound data flow sub diagram that includes a plurality of interconnected nodes. Note that as described above the non input bound data flow sub diagram may be a non input bound data flow entity because it includes at least one non input bound data flow node or the sub diagram may only include input bound data flow nodes but still be a non input bound data flow entity because of its structure i.e. its topology.

In all non input bound data flow nodes in the data flow diagram may be converted into input bound data flow nodes to generate an input bound data flow diagram i.e. a data flow diagram that includes no non input bound data flow nodes. As indicates in the conversion may include processing each non input bound data flow node in the data flow diagram as described below with reference to .

In the non input bound data flow node may be analyzed to determine two or more input bound data flow nodes executable to perform the functionality of the non input bound data flow where each of the two or more input bound data flow nodes is independently callable i.e. two or more input bound data flow nodes are independent. Moreover as indicated in for each non input bound data flow node that is a subsystem node the analyzing may include partitioning the non input bound data flow sub diagram into a plurality of input bound data flow sub diagrams where each of the input bound data flow sub diagrams operates according to input bound data flow semantics without changing data dependencies of the non input bound data flow sub diagram and where the determining the two or more input bound data flow nodes includes determining two or more input bound data flow nodes respectively representing the plurality of input bound data flow sub diagrams.

Thus input bound data flow nodes may be determined that correspond to the non input bound data flow node.

In some embodiments the determining of the two or more input bound data flow nodes may include if any of the two or more input bound data flow nodes have not already been created the method may include creating the input bound data flow nodes that have not already been created based on the functionality of the non input bound data flow node and storing the created input bound data flow nodes and if any of the two or more input bound data flow nodes have already been created the already created input bound data flow nodes may be retrieved. In some embodiments creating the two or more input bound data flow nodes may be performed automatically while in other embodiments creating the two or more input bound data flow nodes may be performed manually e.g. by a user specifying or creating the node in a graphical programming development environment.

In the two or more input bound data flow nodes may be included in the input bound data flow diagram in lieu of the non input bound data flow node. In other words the determined two or more input bound data flow nodes placed or inserted into the input bound data flow diagram in instead of the non input bound data flow node.

Finally in the generated the input bound data flow diagram may be stored e.g. in a memory medium. Note that the input bound data flow diagram is characterized by an input bound data flow model of computation since no non input bound data flow nodes remain in the converted generated diagram. It is still possible however that some subsets of the diagram may have non input bound data flow behavior but such behavior is due to the architecture or arrangement of the nodes not due to the nodes themselves.

Note further that because of the partitioning and determining of nodes representing the input bound data flow sub diagrams i.e. representing the partitions of above the number of input bound data flow nodes in the generated diagram is less than would be the case were the input bound data flow sub diagrams left as is. Thus while the respective replacement of non input bound data flow nodes with respective two or more input bound nodes may substantially increase the total number of nodes in the diagram the partitioning and substituting of input bound data flow nodes for the input bound data flow sub diagrams serves to ameliorate this increase in total number of nodes.

In some embodiments the conversion of may be automatic. In other words the analyzing and including may be performed automatically e.g. via execution of program instructions. However in other embodiments at least some user input may be required to perform some of the method elements described.

In some embodiments the non input bound data flow sub diagram of may initially include at least one non input bound data flow node in which case analyzing the non input bound data flow node may further include performing the analyzing and including for each non input bound data flow node in the non input bound data flow sub diagram. In other words these nodes in the sub diagrams may also be converted in the same manner prior to the partitioning of the sub diagram. More generally the data flow diagram may be hierarchical with sub diagrams at any of various levels.

As described above in the analyzing of may include partitioning the non input bound data flow sub diagram into a plurality of input bound data flow sub diagrams where each of the input bound data flow sub diagrams operates according to input bound data flow semantics without changing data dependencies of the non input bound data flow sub diagram.

In preferred embodiments the partitioning of may be performed based on input and output data dependencies of the interconnected nodes of the non input bound data flow sub diagram. Thus in order to avoid introducing new data dependencies nodes may be grouped into portions or partitions of the sub diagram according to their dataflow dependencies. For example nodes have a dataflow dependence on the input to a subsystem sub diagram if there is a direct dataflow path between the input to the subsystem and an input to the node. An output of the subsystem has a dataflow dependency on a node if there is a direct dataflow path between an output of the node and the original output of the subsystem. Once these dataflow dependencies are computed nodes that depend on the same set of subsystem inputs may be grouped together. Alternatively nodes on which the same set of subsystem outputs depend may be grouped together. In one embodiment both strategies for grouping nodes into clumps may be used and the strategy which results in the fewest partitions chosen.

A similar analysis and partitioning may be performed based on output dependencies. illustrates partitioning based on such output dependencies of the nodes according to one embodiment where for each node a determination may be made as to what outputs depend on the node firing. Similar to above since each node is input bound no output is produced until all contributing nodes have fired and so each contributing node s output is effectively gated by the other contributing nodes. Thus as may be seen the sub diagram has again been partitioned into partitions or clumps but this time based on distinct output dependencies. More specifically partition p comprising the left input half of the original non input bound data flow node contributes to no outputs p comprising the right output half of the original non input bound data flow node and the top multiply node contributes to output A and p comprising the bottom multiply node and the addition node contributes to output B. As above these dependencies are also reflected in the I O dependencies of the overall sub diagram. Thus since the partitioning based on output dependencies results in three partitions or clumps rather than the four partitions or clumps of based on input dependencies the output dependency based approach may be used.

As described above in some embodiments the determining the two or more input bound data flow nodes includes determining two or more input bound data flow nodes respectively representing the plurality of input bound data flow sub diagrams. illustrates an exemplary screenshot of the subsystem diagram of but where the partitions of have been replaced with respective input bound data flow nodes labeled and respectively. It should be noted that in some embodiments the modified sub diagram of may not actually be stored as a separate diagram but rather may be used in the data flow diagram everywhere instances of the original non input bound data flow node occurred.

In some embodiments a more sophisticated analysis of dependencies may result in a more efficient partitioning strategy. For example in one embodiment the partitioning may include computing a feed through map for the non input bound data flow sub diagram indicating dependencies of each output of the non input bound data flow sub diagram upon inputs of the non input bound data flow sub diagram and analyzing the feed through map to determine at least two of the input bound data flow sub diagrams that if merged would not produce any new data dependencies of the outputs of the non input bound data flow sub diagram upon inputs of the non input bound data flow sub diagram. The at least two of the input bound data flow sub diagrams may then be merged. Note that such merging of input bound data flow sub diagrams decreases the number of partitions and thus the number of corresponding input bound data flow nodes needed to represent the input bound data flow sub diagrams in the top level diagram i.e. the data flow diagram.

Given the strategy for grouping nodes into partitions above the potential number of partitions may be reduced by reducing the number of inputs or outputs to the subsystem. This may be achieved by treating subsystem inputs or outputs which have the same dataflow dependencies as equivalent. That is subsystem inputs with equivalent sets of dependent subsystem outputs can be treated as the same input for the purposes of the partitioning algorithm. Similarly subsystem outputs which are dependent on equivalent sets of subsystem inputs may be treated as the same output. Such equivalencies may be determined via a feedthrough map.

As shown in this example each node in the diagram has been marked with its respective input dependencies i.e. the inputs received by the node and upon which the node depends to fire or execute. For example Node depends on input indicated by the label . The nodes have been grouped together based on their respective input dependencies where all nodes with identical input dependencies are grouped together resulting in 7 partitions or clumps as indicated by the closed curves enclosing each group. Note that this approach which treats inputs as distinct does not use a feedthrough map and results in a relatively large number of partitions or clumps.

For example referring back to note that inputs and all contribute to the same outputs specifically outputs and . Thus these inputs may be considered to be equivalent with respect to dependencies in that all are needed to produce each of the outputs and . According to the convention used in these examples since inputs and have been determined to be equivalent the individual input dependencies of the nodes in the diagram shown next to each node are modified by replacing each of the indicated inputs and with the concatenated label and redundancies removed indicating that these inputs and are equivalent as shown in . Thus the input dependency for Node which in was simply is shown as in and similarly for Nodes since each depends on one or more of inputs and . Note that the feedthrough maps may also be modified in this manner. For example in the output feedthrough map on the right side of the diagram the designations of inputs have been replaced with . Similarly since outputs and each have the same input dependencies designations of outputs and may each be replaced with the concatenated label as indicated in the input feedthrough map of left side of the diagram .

The last input Input which contributes to outputs and as indicated by the input feedthrough map to the left of the inputs is singular in that there are no other inputs that have the same output contribution outputs and . Thus no further inputs may be grouped.

As shows the nodes may then be grouped by their modified input dependencies i.e. nodes with identical input dependencies may be grouped together thus partitioning the diagram. Thus Nodes each depending on input are grouped together Nodes and each dependent on inputs and are grouped together and finally node dependent on input is its own partition.

It should be noted that the diagram could also be partitioned based on equivalent outputs which would produce a similar although possible different partitioning. Note the drastic reduction in subdiagrams or partitions from the partitioning of and that of . As described above these partitions may then be represented by respective nodes. Also note that the ultimate dependencies of the outputs on the inputs does not change with the partitioning. In other words partitioning or clumping the nodes in the manner described does not change the input output dependencies of the diagram or sub diagram .

In preferred embodiments the conversion of non input data flow nodes to input bound data flow nodes may include performing the partitioning and including for each non input bound data flow subsystem node in the data flow diagram in a recursive manner. In various embodiments this recursion may be performed in a depth first manner or alternatively in a breadth first manner such techniques being well known in the art of graph theory. In a preferred embodiment the recursion is performed depth first starting at the bottom the deepest nodes in the hierarchy i.e. leaf nodes . For example one or more leaf subsystems may be selected for processing in a parallel or sequential manner where each non input bound data flow node e.g. indirect API block may be decomposed or expanded into its corresponding functional nodes e.g. G language input bound data flow equivalent functions. Note that direct API blocks i.e. input bound primitive or atomic data flow nodes may directly link to their G language equivalents and may not require decomposition. Note also that in this embodiment since the initial processing operates on leaf subsystems no further subsystems are embedded in the simulation diagrams at this level in the hierarchy. Thus the operations may convert a leaf node simulation subsystem into executable graphical program code e.g. G language code i.e. a block diagram of a virtual instrument.

Given the above method there are various ways in which the input bound data flow diagram may be generated. For example in one embodiment the conversion may modify the data flow diagram itself. In other words the converting may change the data flow diagram to the input bound data flow diagram.

As noted above in some embodiments the input bound data flow diagram may be a companion diagram i.e. an underlying diagram for an original data flow diagram where the companion diagram executes in lieu of the original diagram where for example the original data flow diagram may be displayed and where the input bound data flow diagram may not be displayed.

For example in one embodiment the data flow diagram described above may be a copy of an original data flow diagram where the unchanged original data flow diagram is viewable by the user and the conversion modifies or changes the data flow diagram the copy into the input bound data flow diagram and so the generated input bound data flow diagram may be a companion diagram to the original data flow diagram as discussed above where the companion diagram may not be viewable to the user the user may not even be aware of the companion diagram and may be executed in place of the original diagram.

In a further embodiment the input bound data flow diagram may be generated from scratch as the data flow diagram is processed. For example as the nodes in the data flow diagram are processed each input bound data flow node may be copied to the new input bound data flow diagram and for each non input bound data flow node in the data flow diagram the respective two or more input bound data flow nodes determined in may be included in the input bound data flow diagram which may be a companion diagram with respect to the data flow diagram.

In yet another embodiment the processing may be performed per sub diagram. In other words the original data flow diagram may be traversed e.g. depth first bottom up where sub diagrams diagrams in the hierarchical data flow diagram are copied to the initially empty input bound data flow diagram and converted as described above. Said another way the conversion or modification may be performed on sub diagrams copied from the original data flow diagram where after the conversion process is complete all the converted copies of sub diagrams compose the input bound data flow diagram.

Thus in some embodiments the conversion process described above may generate the input bound data flow diagram without destroying the original data flow diagram and may be considered a companion diagram that is associated with the original diagram as discussed above.

In some cases after the conversion described above has been performed thereby generating the input bound data flow diagram the companion diagram the original data flow diagram may be modified and so the input bound data flow diagram will be out of sync with the original diagram. Of course the above method could simply be repeated with respect to the modified data flow diagram to generate a corresponding input bound data flow diagram however this is an inefficient approach since those portions of the diagram that were not changed would still be processed. Thus in some embodiments in response to functional changes in the data flow diagram the method may include updating the input bound data flow diagram by performing the above described analyzing and including only with respect to changed portions of the data flow diagram.

Additionally in some embodiments by storing any newly created input bound data flow nodes including those that correspond to non input bound data flow nodes including subsystem nodes and possibly input bound data flow nodes that represent the determined input bound data flow sub diagrams generated by the partitioning of both processing and storage may be saved by avoiding redundancies in the creation and storage of the input bound data flow nodes. Thus for example if there are multiple instances of a non input bound node in the diagram corresponding instances of the same replacement input bound data flow nodes may be used in the input bound data flow diagram. Similarly input bound data flow nodes representing respective partitions clumps may be stored and retrieved for use anywhere those partitions sub diagram portions occur in the diagram.

Moreover in some embodiments where the data flow diagram is to be executed which may actually mean that the companion diagram is executed the created nodes may also be pre compiled which may provide further efficiencies since executing the input bound data flow diagram would necessitate linking in these precompiled nodes as opposed to having to compile all the nodes from scratch. In fact in some embodiments all the input bound data flow nodes may be pre compiled and stored for later retrieval. In some embodiments the compiling and or linking of pre compiled code may be performed recursively possibly as part of the above conversion process. Said another way in some embodiments the conversion process may be performed as part of a compilation process where pre compiled code is used as desired and as available or possible .

While embodiments described above relate to various nodes and subsystems e.g. subdiagrams or subVIs it should be noted that similar methods may apply to any graphical structures which contain code. For example similar methods may apply to loop or iteration structures in place memory structures target execution icon structures case structures etc. Accordingly the following sections describe the application of the conversion and or partitioning of nodes described above to case structures in a data flow diagram. It should be noted that any of the descriptions and methods described above may apply to the methods described below. For example the analysis conversion substitution and or partitioning among others described above may apply below.

In input specifying a first case structure in a data flow diagram may be received. In some embodiments the input may be received as user input to the data flow diagram using a development environment. However other types of input are envisioned. In one embodiment the first case structure may be created automatically in response to input specifying desired functionality or in response to other stimuli.

Specification of the first case structure may include specification of the cases frames the conditions for each case and or the graphical code for execution for each case among others. In some embodiments the first case structure includes a case which is a non input bound data flow entity. Note that as described above this case of the first case structure may be a non input bound data flow entity because it includes at least one non input bound data flow node or may only include input bound data flow nodes but still be a non input bound data flow entity because of its structure i.e. its topology.

As used herein a case structure refers to a graphical structure in a diagram which operates to receive input and invoke execution of graphical code based on associated conditions of the case structure. In primary embodiments the graphical code is contained in an interior portion of the case structure. An exemplary case structure is used and described in LabVIEW provided by National Instruments.

Additionally illustrate an exemplary specified case structure in a data flow diagram. More specifically illustrate an exemplary data flow diagram with a simulation loop and case structure . As shown the exemplary case structure may include a graphical frame sometimes referred to as a case of the case structure for each set of conditions. For example in as indicated by the Case Default label the case structure is currently displaying code for a first case or frame of the case structure referred to as . Each frame may include graphical code which is executed if the conditions for that frame or case is met. As also shown the exemplary case structure receives inputs and provides outputs. These inputs and outputs may be coupled to each of the frames of the case structure. In other words each frame may receive and provide the same inputs and outputs. As shown in the case structure receives numeric and enum as inputs and provides output via numeric . In this case the code for the first frame when the enum is Case decrements the received numeric by 1 according to decrementor . In contrast as shown in frame of when the enum is Case the numeric is manipulated according to an integrator which is a non input bound data flow node. Thus illustrate an exemplary specified case structure. Note that this case structure is exemplary only and other case structures are envisioned.

In similar to descriptions above if the first case structure includes one or more non input bound data flow nodes each non input bound data flow node in the first case structure may be converted into a respective plurality of input bound data flow nodes according to the methods described above. As indicated above the plurality of input bound data flow nodes may be mutually independent or independently callable. For example after conversion the plurality of input bound data flow nodes may not be directly connected or wired together. Thus if the first case structure includes any non input bound data flow nodes e.g. in one or more of the cases of the first structure they may be converted to input bound data flow nodes. Following the example of frame in conversion of integrator may result in two non connected input bound data flow nodes.

In similar to descriptions above each case of the first case structure may be partitioned into one or more input bound data flow diagram portions. In some embodiments at least one of the cases may be partitioned into a plurality of input bound data flow diagram portions. For example where a case previously included a non input bound data flow node two groups of nodes may be easily divided based on the new input bound data flow nodes or the connectivity thereof . Alternatively where the case included only input bound data flow nodes the case may be partitioned based on dependencies. For example where a case includes a first input which is coupled to a first output without other input and a second input that is coupled to a second output without other input the graphical code may be separated so that a first portion comprises the code between the first input and the first output and a second portion comprises the code between the second input and the second output. Thus each case of the first case structure may be partitioned into one or more input bound data flow diagram portions.

In the first case structure may be replaced with a first conditional structure and one or more second conditional structures. The first conditional structure may operate to select or invoke execution e.g. at runtime of the data flow diagram portions partitioned in . In one embodiment the first conditional structure may itself be a case structure. The first conditional structure may include the same conditions associated with the first case structure and may invoke or otherwise provide information that results in invocation the data flow diagram portions of the case associated with the provided condition trigger i.e. from the input of the first case structure . In other words the first conditional structure may invoke execution of the individual data flow diagram portions according to the cases conditions and code specified for the first case structure.

In one embodiment there may be one or more first conditional structures for enabling execution of the data flow diagrams portions partitioned in . For example each first conditional structure may correspond to each case of the case structure. These first conditional structures may thus produce enable signals for invoking execution of the respective data flow diagram portions of their respective case.

Alternatively each first conditional structure may correspond to each data flow diagram portion and may invoke execution of the data flow diagram portion according to the condition of the case from which the data flow diagram was originally partitioned. Thus each first conditional structure may invoke a single data flow diagram portion if there is a one to one correspondence of the data flow diagram portions or may produce an enable signal for invoking a plurality of the data flow diagram portions e.g. according to the conditions of the case which originally contained the data flow diagram portions . Thus the first case structure may be replaced by one or more first conditional structures.

Where the first conditional structure s produces an enable signal each of the data flow diagram portions may be included in individual conditional structures or case structures in order to invoke conditional execution based on the first conditional structure. These case structures may include the data flow diagram portion for the condition of for example a TRUE Boolean and may not include any code when for example a FALSE Boolean. Thus each of the data flow diagram portions may be conditionally executed based on outputs from the first conditional structure s . For example where there is a first conditional structure for each case of the first case structure the first conditional structure may provide a TRUE or FALSE Boolean which may be provided as input to the conditional structures for each of the data flow diagram portions. Thus the first conditional structure s may provide input to the conditional structures of each data flow diagram portion in order to invoke execution.

The one or more second conditional structures may operate to select appropriate output s from the data flow diagram portions invoked by the first conditional structure s . Similar to the first conditional structure the second conditional structures may include the same conditions associated with the first case structure and may select outputs from the data flow diagram portions of the case associated with the provided condition trigger. Similar to above the second conditional structures may be case structures.

In some embodiments each of the second conditional structures may correspond to an output of the first case structure e.g. in a one to one relationship. Thus in one embodiment for each output of the first case structure a conditional structure may be generated which uses the conditions of the first case structure and the outputs of the data flow diagram portions which correspond to each cases output of the given output. Using a conditional structure for each output may allow outputs to fire as soon as possible as opposed to using a single output conditional structure which may require that every input be present even if one of the outputs could already be provided. Thus second conditional structures may correspond to each output of the first case structure.

Similar to descriptions above may be performed in a variety of different methods. For example replacing the case structure may occur in the data flow diagram in which the case structure was defined. Correspondingly after the case structure is specified it may be replaced with the various conditional structures case structures described above. In other words the case structure may be removed from the diagram as displayed to a user and the new conditional structures case structures may be automatically included.

Alternatively replacing the case structure may occur in a diagram that isn t displayed to the user e.g. in a companion or underlying diagram. In some embodiments e.g. at compile time the diagram or a portion or subdiagram may be copied and the case structure included in the diagram may be replaced according to the methods described above.

In one embodiment replacing the case structure may occur in a separate diagram without copying the original case structure over. In other words a new diagram e.g. a companion diagram or underlying diagram that may be used during execution may be created by analyzing the original diagram or portions subdiagrams thereof and including corresponding structures in the new diagram. For example where a case structure is specified in the original diagram the structures described above may be included in the diagram e.g. without copying the first case structure. Other replacements in the new diagram are envisioned such as those described above among others. Where no substitute or change is required the elements of the original diagram may be simply copied to the new diagram.

Only one case structure results for Case since the single decrementor node can only be partitioned into a single data flow diagram portion. Two case structures result for Case since the single integrator node has been converted to two separate and independently callable integrator nodes thus resulting in two clumps and correspondingly two case structures and . Case structures and all receive the input from numeric via input wire . Finally output case structure uses the same conditions from the original case structure to select outputs from case structures and using the output from enum via wire . The corresponding output of case structure is provided to numeric via output wire . Thus illustrates an exemplary data flow diagram resulting from the conversion of the first case structure to a plurality of case structures. Note that this diagram may or may not be displayed to the user as described above. Note further that this diagram may be used for execution of the original diagram shown in e.g. at compile or run time.

In the diagram e.g. the original data flow diagram with replacements or the companion diagram with the conditional structures may be stored on a memory medium.

Thus in response to input specifying a case structure in a data flow diagram conversions partitions and or structures may be automatically performed and generated. These methods may be especially useful in data flow diagrams such as simulation diagrams where case structures previously could not be implemented. More specifically the methods described above may allow for the use of case structures in diagrams whose data flow semantics do not allow non input bound data flow when indirect feedthrough is desired.

Although the embodiments above have been described in considerable detail numerous variations and modifications may become apparent to those skilled in the art once the above disclosure is fully appreciated. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted to embrace all such variations and modifications.

