---

title: HMM-based bilingual (Mandarin-English) TTS techniques
abstract: An exemplary method for generating speech based on text in one or more languages includes providing a phone set for two or more languages, training multilingual HMMs where the HMMs include state level sharing across languages, receiving text in one or more of the languages of the multilingual HMMs and generating speech, for the received text, based at least in part on the multilingual HMMs. Other exemplary techniques include mapping between a decision tree for a first language and a decision tree for a second language, and optionally vice versa, and Kullback-Leibler divergence analysis for a multilingual text-to-speech system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08244534&OS=08244534&RS=08244534
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08244534
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070820
---
While the quality of text to speech TTS synthesis has been greatly improved in the recent years various telecommunication applications e.g. information inquiry reservation and ordering and email reading demand higher synthesis quality than current TTS systems can provide. In particular with globalization and its accompanying mixing of languages such applications can benefit from a multilingual TTS system in which one engine can synthesize multiple languages or even mixed languages. Most conventional TTS systems can only deal with a single language where sentences of voice databases are pronounced by a single native speaker. Although multilingual text can be correctly read by switching voices or engines at each language change it is not practically feasible for code switched text in which the language changes occur within a sentence as words or phrases. Furthermore with the widespread use of mobile phones or embedded devices the footprint of a speech synthesizer becomes a factor for applications based on such devices.

Studies of multilingual TTS systems indicate that phonetic coverage can be achieved by collecting multilingual speech data but language specific information e.g. specialized text analysis is also required. A global phone set which uses the smallest phone inventory to cover all phones of the languages affected has been tried in multilingual or language independent speech recognition and synthesis. Such an approach adopts phone sharing with the phonetic similarity measured by data driven clustering methods or phonetic articulatory features defined by the International Phonetic Alphabet IPA . Intense interest exists as to small footprint aspects of TTS systems noting that Hidden Markov Model based speech synthesis tends to be more promising. Some Hidden Markov Model HMM synthesizers can have a relatively small footprint e.g. 2 MB which lends itself to embedded systems. In particular such HMM synthesizers have been successfully applied to speech synthesis of many monolinguals e.g. English Japanese and Mandarin. Such an HMM approach has been applied for multilingual purposes where an average voice is first trained by using mixed speech from several speakers in different languages and then the average voice is adapted to a specific speaker. Consequently the specific speaker is able to speak all the languages contained in the training data.

Through globalization English words or phrases embedded in Mandarin utterances are becoming more popularly used among students and educated people in China. However Mandarin and English belong to different language families these languages are highly unrelated in that seldom phones can be shared together based on examination of their IPA symbols.

A bilingual Mandarin English TTS is conventionally built based on pre recorded Mandarin and English sentences uttered by a bilingual speaker where a unit selection module of the system is shared across the two languages while phones from the two different languages are not shared with each other. Such an approach has certain shortcomings. The footprint of such a system is large i.e. about twice the size of a single language system. In practice it is also not easy to find a sufficient number professional bilingual speakers to build multiple bilingual voice fonts for various applications.

Various exemplary techniques discussed herein pertain to multilingual TTS systems. Such techniques can reduce a TTS system s footprint compared to existing techniques that require a separate TTS system for each language.

An exemplary method for generating speech based on text in one or more languages includes providing a phone set for two or more languages training multilingual HMMs where the HMMs include state level sharing across languages receiving text in one or more of the languages of the multilingual HMMs and generating speech for the received text based at least in part on the multilingual HMMs. Other exemplary techniques include mapping between a decision tree for a first language and a decision tree for a second language and optionally vice versa and Kullback Leibler divergence analysis for a multilingual text to speech system.

Techniques are described herein for use in multilingual TTS systems. Such techniques may be applied to any of a variety of TTS approaches that use probabilistic models. While various examples are described with respect to HMM based approaches for English and Mandarin exemplary techniques may apply broadly to other languages and TTS systems for more than two languages.

Several exemplary approaches for sound sharing are described herein. An approach that uses an IPA based examination of phones is suitable for finding some phones from English and Mandarin are sharable. Another exemplary approach demonstrates that sound similarities exist at the level of sub phonemic productions which can be sharable as well. Additionally complex phonemes may be rendered by two or three simple phonemes and numerous allophones which are used in specific phonetic contexts provide more chances for phone sharing between Mandarin and English.

Various exemplary techniques are discussed with respect to context independence and context dependence. A particular exemplary technique includes context dependent HMM state sharing in bilingual Mandarin English TTS system. Another particular exemplary technique includes state level mapping for new language synthesis without having to rely on speech for a particular speaker in the new language. More specifically a speaker s speech sounds in another language mapped to sounds in the new language to generate speech in the new language. Hence such a method can generate speech for a speaker in a new language without requiring recorded speech of the speaker in the new language. Such a technique synthetically extends the language speaking capabilities of a user.

An exemplary approach is based on a framework of HMM based speech synthesis. In this framework spectral envelopes fundamental frequencies and state durations are modeled simultaneously by corresponding HMMs. For a given text sequence speech parameter trajectories and corresponding signals are then generated from trained HMMs in the Maximum Likelihood ML sense.

Various exemplary techniques can be used to build an HMM based bilingual Mandarin English TTS system. A particular exemplary technique includes use of language specific and language independent questions designed for clustering states across two languages in one single decision tree. Trial results demonstrate that an exemplary TTS system with context dependent HMM state sharing across languages outperforms a simple baseline system where two separate language dependent HMMs are used together. Another exemplary technique includes state mapping across languages based upon the Kullback Leibler divergence KLD to synthesize Mandarin speech using model parameters in an English decision tree. Trial results demonstrate that synthesized Mandarin speech via such an approach is highly intelligible.

An exemplary technique can enhance learning by allowing a student to generate foreign language speech using the student s native language speech sounds. Such a technique uses a mapping for example established using a talented bilingual speaker. According to such a technique the student may more readily comprehend the foreign language when it is synthesized using the student s own speech sounds albeit from the speakers native language. Such a technique optionally includes supplementation of the foreign language for example as the student becomes more proficient the student may provide speech in the foreign language.

The STT method receives energy e.g. analog to digital conversion to a digital waveform or a recorded version of energy e.g. digital waveform file parameterizes the energy waveform and recognizes text corresponding to the energy waveform . The TTS method receives text performs a text analysis a prosody analysis and then generates an energy waveform .

As already mentioned exemplary techniques described herein pertain primarily to TTS methods and systems and more specifically to multilingual TTS methods and systems.

The English method and system and the Mandarin method and system are described simultaneously as the various steps and components are quite similar. The English method and system receive English text and the Mandarin method and system receive Mandarin text . TTS method and perform text analysis prosody analysis and waveform generation to produce waveforms . Of course for example specifics of text analyses differ from English and Mandarin.

The English TTS system includes English phones and English HMMs to generate waveform while the Mandarin TTS system includes Mandarin phones and Mandarin HMMs to generate waveform .

As described herein an exemplary method and system allows for multilingual TTS. shows an exemplary multilingual method and system . The exemplary TTS method performs text analysis for English text Hello World and or Mandarin text followed by prosody analysis and waveform generation . The method uses the exemplary system which includes a set of phones and corresponding HMMs to allow for generation of waveforms and depending on whether English text and or Mandarin text are received. As indicated in the phones include English phones EP and Mandarin phones MP . Further some of the phones may be shared designated as shared phones SP .

As for building a bilingual Mandarin and English TTS system such as the system of a preliminary step is to decide on a phone set to cover all speech sounds in the two languages. Additionally such a phone set should be compact enough to facilitate phone sharing across languages and make a reasonable sized TTS model. Several exemplary approaches are described herein to find possible sound sharing candidates. As discussed with respect to the trial results see e.g. criteria for sharing may be objective and or subjective. At times the term practical is used for sharing e.g. phone sub phone complex phone etc. sharing which means that a multilingual system can operate with an acceptable level of error.

One exemplary approach examines IPA symbols for phones of a first language and phones of a second language for purposes of phone sharing. IPA is an international standard for use in transcribing speech sounds of any spoken language. It classifies phonemes according to their phonetic articulatory features. IPA fairly accurately represents phonemes and it is often used by classical singers to assist in singing songs in any of a variety of languages. Phonemes of different languages labeled by the same IPA symbol should be considered as the same phoneme when ignoring language dependent aspects of speech perception.

The exemplary IPA approach and an exemplary Kullback Leibler divergence KLD approach are explained with respect to noting that pertains primarily to the KLD approach per block yet it shows English phones EP and Mandarin phones MP which are relevant to the IPA approach.

In the exemplary IPA approach which examines IPA symbols eight consonants k p t f s m n and l and two vowels ignoring the tone information and a can be shared between the two languages. Thus the IPA approach can determine a shared phone set.

In the exemplary KLD based approach a determination block performs a KLD based analysis to by checking EP and MP for sharable phones SP . The KLD technique provides an information theoretic measure of dis similarity between two probability distributions. When the temporal structure of language HMMs is aligned by dynamic programming KLD can be further modified to measure the difference between HMMs of two evolving speech sounds.

where and are the corresponding mean vectors and covariance matrices respectively. According to the KLD technique each EP and each MP in block is acoustically represented by a context independent HMM with 5 emitting states States in . Each state output probability density function pdf is a single Gaussian with a diagonal covariance matrix. For the English phone HMM i a Gaussian distribution and a diagonal covariance matrix exists for each state and for the Mandarin phone HMM j a Gaussian distribution and a diagonal covariance matrix exists for each state. In addition for the example of line spectral pair LSP coding is used for both the English phone and the Mandarin phone.

According to the KLD technique the spectral feature used for measuring the KLD between any two given HMMs is the first 24 LSPs out of the 40 order LSP and the first 24 LSPs out of the 40 order LSP . The first 24 are chosen because in general the most perceptually discriminating spectral information is located in the lower frequency range.

In the KLD example of data used for training HMMs included 1 024 English and 1 000 Mandarin sentences respectively. The foregoing closed form equation closed form of the equation is used to calculate KLD between every pair of speech sounds modeled by their respective HMMs. The 16 English vowels and their nearest neighbors measured by KLD from all vowels of English and Mandarin are listed in block of as set SP . The set SP includes six English vowels whose nearest neighbors are Mandarin vowels and there are two to one mappings e.g. both e and are mapped to among those six vowels.

While the KLD based technique of was applied to phones such an approach can be applied to sub phone and or complex phones. Additionally as described further below context can provide for sharing opportunities.

Mandarin is a tonal language of the Sino Tibetan family while English is a stress timed language of the Indo European family hence the analysis results shown in as well as the IPA examination result suggest that English phonemes tend to be different from Mandarin phonemes. However since the speech production is constrained by limited movement of articulators as described herein an exemplary method can find sharing of acoustic attributes at a granular sub phone level see e.g. the method of .

From another perspective many complex phonemes can be well rendered by two or three phonemes e.g. an English diphthong may be similar to a Mandarin vowel pair . An exemplary method can find sharing of sounds by comparing multiple phone groups of one language to sounds in another language which may be multiple phone groups as well see e.g. the method of .

Moreover as described herein allophones e.g. the Initial w u in Mandarin corresponds to u in syllable wo and v in syllable wei provide more chances for phone sharing between Mandarin and English under certain contexts. Therefore an exemplary method can use context dependent HMM state level sharing for a bilingual Mandarin English TTS system see e.g. the method of .

Yet another approach described herein includes state level mapping for new language synthesis without recording data see e.g. the method of .

In the example of a provision block provides a phone set which is the union of all the phones in English and Mandarin. In a training block training occurs in a manner where states from different central phones across different languages are allowed to be tied together. The method continues in a clustering block where context dependent states are clustered in a decision tree. In this example the clustering uses two questions for growing a decision tree 

i Language independent questions e.g. Velar Plosive Does the state belong to velar plosive phones which contain Eng. k Eng. k Man. or k Man. 

ii Language specific questions e.g. E Voiced Stop Does the state belong to English voiced stop phones which contain b d and 

According to manner and place of articulations supra segmental features etc. questions are constructed so as to tie states of English and Mandarin phone models together.

In the example of a total of 85 006 5 context dependent states are generated. Among them 43 491 5 states are trained from 1 000 Mandarin sentences and the rest from 1 024 English ones. All context dependent states are then clustered into a decision tree. Such a mixed bilingual decision tree has only about 60 of the number of leaf nodes of a system formed by combining two separately trained English and Mandarin TTS systems. Also in the example of about one fifth of the states are tied across languages i.e. 37 871 Mandarin states are tied together with 44 548 English states.

According to the technique a build block builds two language specific decision trees by using bilingual data recorded by one speaker. Per mapping block each leaf node in the Mandarin decision tree MT has a mapped leaf node in the minimum KLD sense in the English decision tree ET . Per mapping block each leaf node in the English decision tree ET has a mapped leaf node in the minimum KLD sense in the Mandarin decision tree MT . In the tree diagram tied context dependent state mapping from Mandarin to English is shown MT to ET . The directional mapping from Mandarin to English can have more than one leaf nodes in the Mandarin tree mapped to one leaf node in the English tree. As shown in the diagram two nodes in the Mandarin tree are mapped into one node in the English tree see dashed circles . The mapping from English to Mandarin is similarly done but in a reverse direction for example for every English leaf node the technique finds its nearest neighbor in the minimum KLD sense among all leaf nodes in the Mandarin tree. A particular map node to node link may be unidirectional or bidirectional.

With respect to speech synthesis shows an exemplary technique . According to the technique in HMM based speech synthesis spectral and pitch features are separated into two streams a spectral feature stream and a pitch feature stream . Stream dependent models are built to cluster two features into separated decision trees. In a model block pitch features are modeled by MSD HMM which can model two discrete and continuous probability spaces discrete for unvoiced regions and continuous for voiced F0 contours.

A determination block determines upper bound of KLD between two MSD HMMs according to the equation of . In this example both English and Mandarin have trees of spectrum pitch and duration and each leaf node of those trees is used to set a mapping between English and Mandarin.

To synthesize speech in a new language without pre recorded data from the same voice talent the mapping established with bilingual data and new monolingual data recorded by a different speaker can be used. For example a context dependent state mapping trained from speech data of a bilingual English Mandarin speaker A can be used to choose the appropriate states trained from speech data of a different monolingual Mandarin speaker B to synthesize English sentences. In this example the same structure of decision trees should be used for Mandarin training data from speakers A and B.

System is a direct combination of HMMs Baseline . Specifically the system is a baseline system where language specific Mandarin and English HMMs and decision trees are trained separately . In the synthesis part input text is converted first into a sequence of contextual phone labels through a bilingual TTS text analysis frontend Microsoft Mulan software marketed by Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. . The corresponding parameters of contextual states in HMMs are retrieved via language specific decision trees . Then LSP gain and F0 trajectories are generated in the maximum likelihood sense . Finally speech waveforms are synthesized from the generated parameter trajectories . In synthesizing a mixed language sentence depending upon the text segments to be synthesized is Mandarin or English appropriate language specific HMMs are chosen to synthesize corresponding parts of the sentence.

System includes state sharing across languages. In the system both 1 000 Mandarin sentences and 1 024 English sentences were used together for training HMMs and context dependent state sharing across languages as discussed above was applied. Per a text analysis block since there are no mixed language sentences in the training data the context of phones at a language switching boundary e.g. the left phone or the right phone is replaced with the nearest context in the language which the central phone belongs to in the text analysis module. For example the triphone E C C will be replaced C o C C C where the left o C o C is the nearest Mandarin ute for E E according to the KLD measure. In a synthesis block decision trees of mixed languages are used instead of the language specific ones as in block of the system .

System includes state mapping across languages. In this system training of Mandarin HMMs and English HMMs occurs followed by building two language specific decision trees see e.g. ET and MT of . Mapping per map blocks and provided for mapping as explained with respect to the technique of . Per synthesis block a trial was performed to synthesize sentences of a language without pre recorded data. To evaluate the upper bound quality of synthesized utterances in the target language the trial used the same speaker s voice when extracting state mapping rules and synthesizing the target language.

Synthesis quality is measured objectively in terms of distortions between original speech and speech synthesized by the system and the system . Since the predicted HMM state durations of generated utterances are in general not the same as those of original speech the trials measured the root mean squared error RMSE of phone durations of synthesized speech. Spectra and pitch distortions were then measured between original speech and synthesized speech where the state durations of the original speech obtained by forced alignment were used for speech generation. In this way both spectrum and pitch are compared on a frame synchronous basis between the original and synthesized utterances.

Table shows the averaged log spectrum distance RMSE of F0 and phone durations evaluated in 100 test sentences 50 Mandarin and 50 English generated by the system and the system . The data indicate that the distortion difference between the system and the system in terms of log spectrum distance RMSEs of F0 and duration are negligibly small.

The plot provides results of a subjective evaluation. Informal listening to the monolingual sentences synthesized by the system and the system confirms the objective measures shown in the table i.e. there is hardly any difference subjective or objective in 100 sentences 50 Mandarin 50 English synthesized by the systems and .

Specifically the results of the plot are from the 50 mixed language sentences generated by the two systems and as evaluated subjectively in an AB preference test by nine subjects. The preference score of the system 60.2 is significantly higher than that of the system 39.8 0.001 CI 0.1085 0.3004 . The main perceptually noticeable difference in the paired sentences synthesized by the systems and is at the transitions between English and Chinese words in the mixed language sentences. State sharing through tied states across Mandarin and English in the system helps to alleviate the problem of segmental and supra segmental discontinuities between Mandarin and English transitions. Since all training sentences are either exclusively Chinese or English there is no specific training data to train such language switching phenomena. As a result the system without any state sharing across English and Mandarin is more prone to the synthesis artifacts at the switches of English and Chinese words.

Overall results from the trials indicate that system which is obtained via efficient state tying across different languages and with a significantly smaller HMM model size than the system can produce the same synthesis quality for non mixed language sentences and better synthesis quality for mixed language ones.

With respect to the system fifty Mandarin test sentences were synthesized by English HMMs. Five subjects were asked to transcribe the 50 synthesized sentences to evaluate their intelligibility. A Chinese character accuracy of 93.9 is obtained.

An example of F0 trajectories predicted by the system dotted line and the system solid line are shown in plot of . As shown in the plot possibly due to the MSD modeling of voice unvoiced stochastic phenomena and KLD measure used for state mapping the voice unvoiced boundaries are well aligned between the two trajectories generated by the system and the system . Furthermore the rising and falling trend of F0 contours in those two trajectories is also well matched. However F0 variation predicted by the system is smaller than that by the system . After analyzing the English and Mandarin training sentences it was found that the variance of F0 in Mandarin sentences is much larger than that in English ones. Both means and variances of the two databases are shown in table . The much larger variance of Mandarin sentences is partially due to the lexical tone nature of Mandarin where the variation in four or five lexical tones increases the intrinsic variance or the dynamic range of F0 in Mandarin.

As described herein various exemplary techniques are used to build exemplary HMM based bilingual Mandarin English TTS systems. The trial results show that the exemplary TTS system with context dependent HMM state sharing across languages outperforms the simple baseline system where two language dependent HMMs are used together. In addition state mapping across languages based upon the Kullback Leibler divergence can be used to synthesize Mandarin speech using model parameters in an English decision tree and the trial results show that the synthesized Mandarin speech is highly intelligible.

According to the technique a provision block provides the voice of a talented speaker that is fluent in language and language where language is understood e.g. native by the ordinary speaker and where language is not fully understood e.g. foreign by the ordinary speaker. A map block maps leaf nodes for language to nearest neighbor leaf nodes for language for the voice of the talented speaker. As the talented speaker can provide native sounds in both languages the mapping can more accurately map similarities between sounds used in language and sounds used in language .

The technique continues in provision block where the voice of the ordinary speaker in language is provided. An association block associates the provided voice sounds of the ordinary speaker with the appropriate leaf nodes for language . As a map already exists as established using the talented speaker s voice between language sounds and language sounds an exemplary system can now generate at least some language speech using the ordinary speaker s sounds from language .

For purposes of TTS a provision block provides text in language which is for example the language foreign to the ordinary speaker and a generation block generates speech in language using the map and the voice e.g. speech sounds of the ordinary speaker in language . Thus the technique extends the speech abilities of the ordinary speaker to language .

In the example of the ordinary speaker may be completely na ve in language or the ordinary speaker may have some degree of skill in language . Depending on the skill a speaker may supplement the technique by providing speech in language as well as language . Various possibilities exist for mapping and sound choice where the speaker supplements by providing speech in language and language .

In the example of once the speaker becomes fluent in language then the speaker may be considered a talented speaker and train an exemplary TTS system per blocks and as described with respect to technique of .

In block the student trains an exemplary TTS system in the student s native language where the TTS system maps the student s speech sounds to the foreign language. To more fully comprehend the speech of the teacher and hence the foreign language per block the student enters text for the uttered phrase e.g. the grass is green . In a generation block the TTS system generates the foreign language speech using the student s speech sounds which are more familiar to the student s ear. Consequently the student more readily comprehends the teacher s utterance. Further the TTS system may display or otherwise output a listing of sounds e.g. phonetically or as words etc. such that the student can more readily pronounce the phrase of interest i.e. per the entered text of block . The technique can provide a student with feedback in a manner that can enhance learning of a language.

In the exemplary techniques and sounds may be phones sub phones etc. As already explained at the sub phone level mapping may occur more readily or accurately depending on the similarity criterion or criteria used. An exemplary technique may use a combination of sounds. For example phones sub phones complex phones phone pairs etc. may be used to increase mapping and more broadly cover the range of sounds for a language or languages.

An exemplary method for generating speech based on text in one or more languages implemented at least in part by a computer includes providing a phone set for two or more languages training multilingual HMMs where the HMMs includes state level sharing across languages receiving text in one or more of the languages of the multilingual HMMs and generating speech for the received text based at least in part on the multilingual HMMs. Such a method optionally includes context dependent states. Such a method optionally includes clustering states into a decision tree for example where the clustering may use of a language independent question and or a language specific question.

An exemplary method for generating speech based on text in one or more languages implemented at least in part by a computer includes building a first language specific decision tree building a second language specific decision tree mapping a leaf node form the first tree to a leaf node of the second tree mapping a leaf node from the second tree to a leaf node of the first tree receiving text in one or more of the languages of the first language and the second language and generating speech for the received text based at least in part on the mapping a leaf node form the first tree to a leaf node of the second tree and or the mapping a leaf node from the second tree to a leaf node of the first tree. Such a method optionally uses a KLD technique for mapping. Such a method optionally includes multiple leaf nodes of one decision tree that map to a single leaf node of another decision tree. Such a method optionally generates speech occurs without using recording data. Such a method may use unidirectional mapping where for example mapping only exists from language to language or only exists from language to language .

An exemplary method for reducing memory size of a multilingual TTS system implemented at least in part by a computer includes providing a HMM for a sound in a first language providing a HMM for a sound in a second language determining line spectral pairs for the sound in the first language determining line spectral pairs for the sound in the second language calculating a KLD score based on the line spectral pairs for the for the sound in the first language and the sound in the second language where the KLD score indicates similarity dissimilarity between the sound in the first language and the sound in the second language and building a multilingual HMM based TTS system where the TTS system comprises shared sounds based on KLD scores. In such a method the sound in the first language may be a phone a sub phone a complex phone a phone multiple etc. and the sound in the second language may be a phone a sub phone a complex phone a phone multiple etc. In such a method a sound may be a context dependent sound.

The computing device shown in is only one example of a computer environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the computer and network architectures. Neither should the computer environment be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the example computer environment.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing an exemplary character generation system that uses a features based approach to conditioning ink data includes a computing device such as computing device . In a very basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. System memory typically includes an operating system one or more program modules and may include program data . This basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within dashed line .

The operating system may include a component based framework that supports components including properties and events objects inheritance polymorphism reflection and provides an object oriented component based application programming interface API such as that of the .NET Framework manufactured by Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash.

Computing device may have additional features or functionality. For example computing device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Thus computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device . Computing device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. These devices are well know in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may also contain communication connections that allow the device to communicate with other computing devices such as over a network. Communication connection s is one example of communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Various modules and techniques may be described herein in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. for performing particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. These program modules and the like may be executed as native code or may be downloaded and executed such as in a virtual machine or other just in time compilation execution environment. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.

An implementation of these modules and techniques may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communications media. 

An exemplary computing device may include a processor a user input mechanism e.g. a mouse a stylus a scroll pad etc. a speaker a display and control logic implemented at least in part by the processor to implement one or more of the various exemplary methods described herein for TTS. For TTS such a device may be a cellular telephone or generally a handheld computer.

One skilled in the relevant art may recognize however that the techniques described herein may be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods resources materials etc. In other instances well known structures resources or operations have not been shown or described in detail merely to avoid obscuring aspects of various exemplary techniques.

While various examples and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the techniques are not limited to the precise configuration and resources described above. Various modifications changes and variations apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the methods systems etc. disclosed herein without departing from their practical scope.

