---

title: System and method for integrated workforce and quality management
abstract: Methods and systems are presented for integrating workforce management and quality monitoring. In one embodiment, the method comprises the steps of: receiving information about a skill; capturing a plurality of contacts made by an agent; receiving an evaluation of the contacts; and updating the skill information based on the evaluation. The skill is associated with an agent, and the evaluation measures the agent skill. In another embodiment, the method comprises the steps of: receiving information about a skill; capturing a plurality of contacts made by an agent; receiving an evaluation form for the contacts; and updating the form based on the skill information. The skill is associated with an agent, and the form produces a measurement of the agent skill.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08331549&OS=08331549&RS=08331549
owner: Verint Americas Inc.
number: 08331549
owner_city: Melville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070501
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 796 418 filed May 1 2006 and hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The business of a call center also known as a contact center is to provide rapid and efficient interaction between agents and customers or prospective customers . Existing solutions require the purchase of multiple hardware and software components typically from different vendors to achieve the business goals of the contact center. The use of separate systems of components leads to a variety of problems. For instance each system typically has its own method of configuration and its own user interface. Thus exchanging data between the systems requires additional work by someone at the contact center.

Furthermore contact centers are continually tasked with striking a balance between service quality efficiency effectiveness revenue generation cost cutting and profitability. As a result today s contact center agents are charged with mastering multiple data sources and systems delivering consistent service across customer touch points up selling cross selling and saving at risk customers while winning new ones.

The systems and methods described herein provide integrated solutions for performing workforce management and quality monitoring. Combining these two functionalities as a unified integrated solution delivered through a single platform enables users to gain more insight and make smarter decisions faster about sales service and overall operations. This takes contact center tools beyond the traditional suite approach to a true single workforce optimization platform.

As can be seen while each technology segment delivers value integration is the key together the segments deliver greater impact than the sum of their individual parts. Utilizing them separately limits the contact center s potential to become a strategic business asset.

In this regard systems and methods for integrating quality monitoring and workforce management are provided. An exemplary embodiment of such a method comprises capturing a plurality of contacts made by an agent and receiving an evaluation of the contacts. The evaluation comprises a measurement of the agent skill. The method further comprises updating skill information associated with an agent based on the evaluation. Another exemplary embodiment of such a method comprises receiving information about a skill where the skill is associated with an agent. The method further comprises capturing a plurality of contacts made by an agent and receiving an evaluation form for the contacts. The form produces a measurement of the agent skill. The method further comprises updating the form based on the skill information. Another exemplary method comprises capturing a plurality of contacts where each contact is made by a one of a plurality of agents. The method further comprises receiving a plurality of scores where each score evaluating one of the contacts. The method further comprises collecting the plurality of scores associated with a selected one of the agents to produce an agent scorecard and incorporating at least a portion of the scores within the agent scorecard as attributes of the selected agent within the workforce manager. Another exemplary method comprises capturing a plurality of contacts where each contact is distributed to one of a plurality of queues and handled by one of a plurality of agents. The method further comprises receiving a first score evaluating quality of one of the contacts distributed to a selected one of the queues and receiving a second score evaluating quality of another one of the contacts distributed to the selected queue. The method further comprises aggregating in the workforce manager the first and the second score to produce a statistic representing quality of contacts for the selected queue.

Other systems methods features and or advantages of this disclosure will be or may become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and or advantages be included within this description and be within the scope of the present disclosure.

A contact router distributes incoming contacts to available agents. When the contacts are made by traditional phone lines the contact router operates by connecting outside trunk lines to agent trunk lines . In this environment the contact router may be implemented by an automatic call distributor ACD which queues calls until a suitable agent is available. Other types of contacts such as Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP calls and computer based contacts e.g. chat email are routed over one or more data networks. These contacts are distributed over network to one of the agent workstations .

A call recorder connected to one or more of the agent trunk lines provides call recording capabilities. In a typical call center such as that shown in the recorder is a server with specialized hardware e.g. digital signal processing boards .

During a customer contact the agent interacts with one or more applications running on the workstation . Example workstation applications are those that give the agent access to customer records product information ordering status and transaction history for example. The applications may access one or more enterprise databases not shown via network .

The contact center also includes a computer implemented integrated contact center system described in further detail in connection with .

The WFM component performs many functions related to the agent workforce. The functionality of the entire WFM component is typically divided among several applications executables processes or services. A forecast and scheduling component calculates staffing levels and agent schedules based on historical interaction contact patterns. A tracking component provides a contact center supervisor or manager with information about agent activities and agent customer interactions both historical and real time. An adherence component supplies the supervisor with information on how well each agent complies with call center policies. A long range planning component uses discrete event based simulation to allow a contact center manager to do strategic planning taking into account future events such as hiring attrition and agent training.

As the agent takes calls throughout a workday contact router or ACD reports changes in the state of the agent s phone as telephone events. As an agent interacts with various workstation applications an application monitor tracks and reports application events. In one implementation the granularity of application events is at the application level so that events describe when applications start and exit and when a user switches from one application to another. In another implementation the granularity of application events is screen level so that events describe a particular screen displayed within an application. In yet another implementation application events are low level including input and or output associated with each application e.g. keystrokes mouse clicks and screen updates .

The quality monitor QM captures multimedia customer interactions which can provide valuable information about what goes on in the contact center. QM also provides tools which contact center personnel can use to analyze the valuable information contained in the captured customer interaction so that these personnel can translate these captured interactions into increased professional development and improved customer service.

The QM includes a content recorder for recording agent customer interactions. The QM stores the interactions in an interactions database which may include descriptive information as well as recorded content. Contact center personnel such as supervisors and quality analysts play back some of the interactions and use an evaluation component to review evaluate and score agent performance in various categories product knowledge selling listening etc. 

Content recorder can be configured to capture all interactions or a selected set of interactions based on user defined business rules which define when a customer interaction becomes a contact. Using business rules only those transactions of interest to the organization are captured. The business rules can trigger recording initiate enterprise collaboration by notifying individuals or groups of the captured contacts and emerging trends and allow users to assign attributes or tags to the contacts for quick identification.

The Content recorder can capture voice and data interactions from both traditional and IP telephony environments and can handle high volume recording for compliance and sales verification. The Content recorder can also record all voice transactions across multiple sites or randomly capture a subset of transactions that may be of particular interest as well as record contacts on demand.

Recorded contacts are then evaluated against an evaluation form. The forms and the results for a particular call or for a particular agent across multiple calls are stored in an evaluations database . Scores in the Evaluations database may be extracted transformed and loaded into an enterprise reporting data warehouse where analytical and trend statistics are generated. The score data can be further rolled up into a scorecard for the agent.

It should be noted that embodiments of one or more of the systems described herein could be used to perform an aspect of speech analytics i.e. the analysis of recorded speech or real time speech which can be used to perform a variety of functions such as automated call evaluation call scoring quality monitoring quality assessment and compliance adherence. By way of example speech analytics can be used to compare a recorded interaction to a script e.g. a script that the agent was to use during the interaction . In other words speech analytics can be used to measure how well agents adhere to scripts identify which agents are good sales people and which ones need additional training. As such speech analytics can be used to find agents who do not adhere to scripts. Yet in another example speech analytics can measure script effectiveness identify which scripts are effective and which are not and find for example the section of a script that displeases or upsets customers e.g. based on emotion detection . As another example compliance with various policies can be determined. Such may be in the case of for example the collections industry where it is a highly regulated business and agents must abide by many rules. The speech analytics of the present disclosure may identify when agents are not adhering to their scripts and guidelines. This can potentially improve collection effectiveness and reduce corporate liability and risk.

In this regard various types of recording components can be used to facilitate speech analytics. Specifically such recording components can perform one or more of various functions such as receiving capturing intercepting and tapping of data. This can involve the use of active and or passive recording techniques as well as the recording of voice and or screen data.

It should be noted that speech analytics can be used in conjunction with such screen data e.g. screen data captured from an agent s workstation PC for evaluation scoring analysis adherence and compliance purposes for example. Such integrated functionality can improve the effectiveness and efficiency of for example quality assurance programs. For example the integrated function can help companies to locate appropriate calls and related screen interactions for quality monitoring and evaluation. This type of precision monitoring improves the effectiveness and productivity of quality assurance programs.

Another aspect that can be accomplished involves fraud detection. In this regard various manners can be used to determine the identity of a particular speaker. In some embodiments speech analytics can be used independently and or in combination with other techniques for performing fraud detection. Specifically some embodiments can involve identification of a speaker e.g. a customer and correlating this identification with other information to determine whether a fraudulent claim for example is being made. If such potential fraud is identified some embodiments can provide an alert. For example the speech analytics of the present disclosure may identify the emotions of callers. The identified emotions can be used in conjunction with identifying specific concepts to help companies spot either agents or callers customers who are involved in fraudulent activities.

Referring back to the collections example outlined above by using emotion and concept detection companies can identify which customers are attempting to mislead collectors into believing that they are going to pay. The earlier the company is aware of a problem account the more recourse options they may have. Thus the speech analytics of the present disclosure can function as an early warning system to reduce losses.

Also included in this disclosure are embodiments of integrated workforce optimization platforms as discussed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 359 356 filed on Feb. 22 2006 entitled Systems and Methods for Workforce Optimization and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 540 185 filed on Sep. 29 2006 entitled Systems and Methods for facilitating Contact Center Coaching both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. At least one embodiment of an integrated workforce optimization platform integrates 1 Quality Monitoring Call Recording voice of the customer the complete customer experience across multimedia touch points 2 Workforce Management strategic forecasting and scheduling that drives efficiency and adherence aids in planning and helps facilitate optimum staffing and service levels 3 Performance Management key performance indicators Kips and scorecards that analyze and help identify synergies opportunities and improvement areas 4 e Learning training new information and protocol disseminated to staff leveraging best practice customer interactions and delivering learning to support development 5 Analytics deliver insights from customer interactions to drive business performance and or 6 Coaching feedback to promote efficient performance. By way of example the integrated workforce optimization process and system can include planning and establishing goals from both an enterprise and center perspective to ensure alignment and objectives that complement and support one another. Such planning may be complemented with forecasting and scheduling of the workforce to ensure optimum service levels. Recording and measuring performance may also be utilized leveraging quality monitoring call recording to assess service quality and the customer experience.

Objects within the enterprise configuration group can be further grouped into organization hierarchy H organization attributes O and organization business rules R . Organization attributes O include data such as contact center hours of operation agent activities A and agent skills S .

Agent activities A include any activity to which an agent on a shift can be assigned for example work activities such as phone and research planned events such as training or staff meetings shift activities such as lunch or break and absence activities such as vacation or jury duty. Agent skills S include any work related skill which an agent might have e.g. competency in sales tech support billing knowledge of particular product foreign language competency with media type incoming calls email callbacks .

Organization business rules R include work rule objects W alert rule objects X and processing rule objects P . Work rule objects W include shifts shift activities work patterns and assignment rules. The work rule objects W allow the WFM scheduler function to produce schedules that reflect the needs of both the contact center and individual agents. Alert rules X specify events that generate alerts to specific users or targets when unusual events occur such as an agent going out of adherence a key performance indicator going out of range or an employee schedule changes. Processing rule objects P describe how Schedule Modification Request objects M described below are approved or denied. Rule can be created to automatically approve the agent requests automatically deny the requests or flag the requests for manual approval. Two examples of Processing rules are Time Off requests will be automatically denied if they are less then 2 weeks prior to the requested date Shift Swaps will be automatically approved if the 2 agents have identical skills.

Objects within the agent group pertain to a specific agent rather than the organization as a whole. The objects in the agent group can be further grouped into personal data I skills S time records T work rules R scheduling preferences P schedules W schedule modification requests M profiles F and adherence information A .

Personal data I includes information such as name address wage employee contractor status full time part time etc. Skills S is a list of zero or more work related skills chosen from the superset of skills defined for the organization S . Skills S may also contain for each skill a competency level e.g. 1 to 5 with 5 being best and a priority. Skill priority affects contact routing. For example suppose the only agent available has Spanish and technical support skills and contacts are waiting in both the Spanish queue and technical support queue. In that case if Spanish is a high priority skill then contact from the Spanish queue will be routed to that agent before the contact in the technical support queue.

Time records T reflect actual work activities performed by an agent during a time period. Schedules W describe the assignment of work activities from the set A defined for the organization to an agent for a specific time period. Work rules R affect how an agent is scheduled for example which days of the week minimum and maximum consecutive days of work etc. Work rules for an agent R are chosen from the superset of work rules defined for the organization W . Scheduling preferences P also affect scheduling by describing preferences an agent has for shift length start time and days off. Schedule modification request objects M allow an agent to make requests such as time off a shift swap with another agent or bidding against other agents for a shift.

Agent profiles F are used by the WFM long range planning component . Agent profiles F describe hiring plans attrition rates and training plans. The planning component creates potential agents using these profiles F and then runs simulations to determine the effect of hiring attrition and training on contact center schedule and performance.

Adherence object F contains data related to whether the agent s work activities adhere to the call center policies. Activities that do not comply are out of adherence. The adherence object F describes what activities are in out of adherence and may include information about the agent phone and workstation state during the out of adherence period.

As described earlier in connection with contact router assigns each contact to a queue. Objects within the queue group are queue specific. Objects within the queue group can be further grouped into configuration of the contact router C skills S actual statistics A forecasted statistics F and required statistics R . The contact router configuration C includes configuration options such as which queues exist on the contact router what time zone the contact router is located in and what type of media the contact router handles. The set of skills required for a contact to be classified and assigned to a particular queue is maintained in the skills object S.

Associated with each queue are various statistics describing the minimum required behavior of a queue the actual behavior of a queue and the forecast behavior of a queue. These statistics are maintained respectively in the required statistics R actual statistics A and forecasted statistics F objects. Typical statistics for the actual and forecasted categories include contact volume average handle time service level usually expressed as X of calls answered within Y minutes average speed to answer and abandons. Typical statistics for the required category include average speed to answer service level and staff count body and or full time equivalent .

Objects within the forecast and scheduling group produce workload forecasts from historical contact information create and evaluate possible agent schedules and simulate agent schedules to predict service levels.

Hardware objects relate to the configuration of various hardware components used in the contact center such as telephony switches agent telephones and agent workstations. Objects within the agent group describe agents such as the agent supervisor hierarchy H agent groupings G and agent specific attributes A such as logon identifier.

Contact objects describe the recorded interactions between agents and customers. Objects in the contact group can be further grouped into content C annotations A and attributes B . Content C may include audio video and or workstation data. Annotations A may include text graphic or audio. Attributes B may be derived from hardware objects e.g. the recording hardware or from application level data such as that provided by a customer relationship management CRM system a performance management system or other contact center software.

Business rule objects describe the rules which drive the capture of interactions by the QM . Business rule objects can be further grouped into randomizer rules R scheduled rules S and event driven rules E and trigger statistics T . Randomizer rules R record a randomized sample of contacts from a group of agents. Scheduled rules S record contacts during specific days and times. Event driven rules E record contacts based on contact attributes e.g. call made to a particular phone number or email with particular word in subject line . The trigger statistics object T maintains statistics about which rules are triggered and when.

A recorded contact is played back and the content is analyzed by a human by analytics software or a combination of both. Evaluation objects describe the evaluation of recorded contacts. Evaluation objects may pertain to a particular contact implying a particular agent or may pertain to a set of contacts for a particular agent. The evaluation produces one or more scores for the contact. A score may be specific to an agent skill S or may be an overall score T for the contact as a whole. A form object F describes the form used to perform the evaluation. Forms typically include questions divided into categories with a numeric score for each question. In one embodiment each category relates to a particular agent skill.

Enterprise Reporting objects make use of evaluation objects . Score Analytics objects A include rollups of scores per agent per group etc. The rollups can include averages minimums and maximums. Score Trend objects T track trends of the score objects over time.

Now that WFM and QM data objects have been described an exemplary list of interactions between these objects will be described. These interactions allow novel features to be implemented in the integrated contact center software. One such interaction between WFM objects and QM objects is an import export feature which allows WFM objects to import data from QM objects and vice versa.

Evaluation module receives input from application monitor contact router or ACD and speech analytics module . Application monitor discussed above analyzes application level events from workstation applications and provides evaluation module with application usage patterns. Contact router provides evaluation module with telephone events e.g. hold time handle time number of transfers etc. . Speech analytics provides evaluation module with call attributes. Examples of speech analysis include categorizing calls based on content and analyzing a call against an expected call pattern and reporting exceptions to the pattern.

Evaluation module uses these inputs or combinations of these inputs to determine an agent s skill level and then updates skill competency level S L in the agent object to reflect the result. One example of using application usage patterns to drive the evaluation sets competency level S L based on whether an agent uses a particular application too frequently or for too long. Another example of using application usage patterns to drive the evaluation sets competency level S L based on whether an agent uses a particular sequence of applications as expected. Examples of using telephony events to drive the evaluation include setting competency level S L based on a number of holds a number of transfers and a hold time. Examples of using speech analytics to drive the evaluation include setting competency level S L based on the ratio of agent talk time to listen time and based on the level of emotion detected in a call.

At step quality monitor captures at least one agent customer interaction also known as a contact. A recorded contact is evaluated by a person or by an analytics component. The evaluation is then received by quality monitor at step . Evaluation is specific to an agent and includes a measure of one or more skills S possessed by that agent as rated by an evaluation of a recorded contact or a group of recorded contacts involving that agent .

At step the skill competency level S L in the agent object is updated to reflect the skill measurement S in the evaluation object . That is the WFM component obtains the agent s competency from evaluation data produced and managed by quality monitor . An additional mapping or translation step not shown may be performed if the two objects use different scales. In some embodiments the skill measurement S in the evaluation object is also used to remove a particular skill S from an agent object for example if the evaluation shows that the agency is no longer competent in a particular area.

In some embodiments a recorded contact is played back and a determination is made as to which agent skills are appropriate in processing the call. Quality monitor adds tags or annotations to the recording to indicate appropriate skills and these tags are used to populate evaluation with specific questions and scoring criteria relevant to that particular skill. For example In the case of a recorded contact of a Spanish speaking caller quality monitor tags the recording with Spanish and evaluation uses this tag to display sections and or questions that evaluate an agent s proficiency in Spanish. In some embodiments once a recorded contact is tagged with a skill quality monitor automatically determines an agent s proficiency on recorded calls or a subset of recorded calls that utilize that skill where proficiency measures an agent s handle time for a call relative to an average handle time .

In some embodiments the sections and questions associated with the skill are combined e.g. averaged to produce a skill measurement S e.g. quality score for a particular skill. WFM component utilizes the skill measurement S to select agents to ensure that a quality goal is met for a specific queue associated with the skill.

As described earlier skill information for an agent is stored as skill information S within the agent object . See . The skill information S contains a priority S P. Skill priority S P is used in routing calls. If two or more agents are available to handle a contact involving a particular skill the contact is routed to the agent that has the highest priority S P for that skill. If only one agent with appropriate skills is available and that agent has multiple skills then the contact which is routed is the one with the highest skill priority S P.

At step skill priority S P is set based on one or more evaluation objects S. That is instead of a contact center manager inputting the priority for an agent s skill the WFM component derives the priority from the QM evaluation data. In one embodiment skill priority S P is set based on the skill measurement S in the evaluation object described above so that agents who have a high competency on a particular skill are assigned a high priority S P on that same skill. As one example agents who have high competency in Spanish e.g. native Spanish speakers are assigned highest priority for incoming calls from Spanish speakers and agents who have lower competency in Spanish e.g. Spanish as a second language are assigned second priority. As a result calls from Spanish speakers are routed to the agents with the best Spanish skills until none of those agents are available at which time the calls are routed to agents who do speak Spanish but not as well.

When a recorded contact is evaluated by a person or computer implemented analytics component objectives are measured against criteria. For example an objective for a sales contact might be mentioning a product a certain number of times and the criteria might be 3 product mentions. These objectives and criteria are stored in a Form object F which is associated with one or more evaluations.

At step the criteria in the Form object F is set based on information in the WFM Agent Skills object S such as skill competency level S L. For example the criteria used to evaluate an agent with the highest skill competency e.g. 5 product mentions may be harsher than the criteria used to evaluate an agent with less competency e.g. 3 product mentions .

A contact center manager can create event driven business rules E which define when a customer interaction becomes a contact thus capturing transactions that are of interest to the organization. The rules include conditions which must be met to trigger recording of a contact. In the embodiment of the conditions used to trigger event driven business rules E include agent specific schedules W work rules R scheduling preferences P and or schedule modification requests M .

One example of such an event driven rule E is one which triggers contact recording of those agents with certain work rules R such as agents that work 6 consecutive days and those that work 5 consecutive days. By recording based on these conditions a contact center manager can determine whether agent productivity and or quality is affected by the number of consecutive days worked.

Another example of an event driven rule E is one which triggers contact recording of those agents with specific schedules W which allows a manager to determine whether productivity and or quality is affected by schedule. For example agents with 4 10 schedules four days ten hours can be compared to agents with 5 8 schedules or agents with weekends off can be compared to agents with weekdays off or agents that work the midnight shift can be compared to agents that work the early evening shift.

Another example of an event driven rule E is one which triggers contact recording of those agents with certain scheduling preferences P such as weekends off or late start times. In this manner a contact center manager can determine whether agents who are given a scheduling preference have better productivity and or quality than those who are not.

Once event driven business rules E have been created using this agent specific data Content recorder is triggered by these rules to create recorded contacts . The contacts are stored in interactions database .

Adherence information about a particular agent is available in the adherence object A. Adherence object A describes what agent activities are out of adherence for example the activity type A A Phone E mail etc. time the activity went out of adherence A T and the tolerance value A R. Adherence object A may also include information about the agent phone and workstation state during the out of adherence period.

In the embodiment of the conditions used by event driven business rules E include adherence information A. This allows a contact center manager to trigger recording when an agent goes out of adherence. Once event driven business rules E have been creating using adherence data Content recorder is triggered by these rules to create recorded contacts . The contacts are stored in interactions database .

In another embodiment shown the event driven business rule E that drives content recording specifies a skill competency. Using this type of rule a contact center supervisor can ensure that more recordings are made of lower skilled agents. The rate of recording can be reduced as the skill competency level increases.

In the embodiment of the conditions on which event driven business rules E are triggered include queue specific statistics . This allows a contact center manager to trigger recording on events such as queue average handle time rising above a threshold queue service level dropping below a threshold etc. Once event driven business rules E have been creating using queue statistics Content recorder is triggered by these rules to create recorded contacts . The contacts are stored in interactions database . One example of a rule records all contacts when average handle time is greater than 600 seconds for more than 30 minutes. Another example of a rule records all contacts with a queue hold time of greater than 5 minutes which allows a supervisor to evaluate how agents are handling customers who may be angry or frustrated after being on hold.

In this embodiment tagging module uses these same scheduler adherence and or ACD attributes or combinations thereof to tag recorded contacts with these attributes. That is these attributes are stored in assocation with the recorded contact. These stored tags allow a supervisor to search for specific calls and to generate reports that include calls with desired attributes. In this manner the supervisor can evaluate trends in the quality of agent contacts as a function of the tagged attributes.

Through interaction QM Enterprise Reporting Score Analytics object A collects agent scores from the evaluation objects and generates quality statistics on a per agent basis. Statistics reported by the Score Analytics object A are sometimes called scorecards and per agent statistics are sometimes called an agent rollup. In one embodiment the generated statistics include minimum maximum and average scores across multiple evaluations of one agent .

Through interaction the WFM Agent object receives agent score data from these QM Score Analytics objects and incorporates the data as additional agent attributes. In one embodiment the score data received by Agent object includes individual scores for particular contacts. In another embodiment the score data includes statistics such as minimum maximum and average for a group of contacts made by the agent. Consolidation of this rollup data into the WFM Agent object allows the WFM to provide agent score information in conjunction with other agent information e.g. agent skills time records schedules and adherence information . For example agent score information can be displayed in the same WFM view display or module as other agent information.

Contacts are classified into skills and are then routed to a queue that has been associated with that skill S . Once queued a contact is then handled by an agent who is also associated with that skill S . In the example of the two evaluated contacts are for agents assigned to the same queue .

Through interaction the WFM Queue object receives scores from the evaluation objects . The scores are aggregated to produce one or more statistics representing agent quality on a per queue basis. In one embodiment the statistics include minimum maximum and average scores across multiple agents which were scored while servicing a particular queue . Consolidation of these queue statistics into the WFM Queue object allows WFM to provide queue specific scores in conjunction with other queue attributes or information e.g. actual statistics required statistics and forecast statistics . For example queue specific score information can be displayed in the same WFM view display or module as other queue specific attributes.

