---

title: Parental control using social metrics system and method
abstract: A parent defines friend rules for on-line association with their child. Upon a request of an on-line stranger to be a new friend of the child, stranger information about the on-line stranger is retrieved and compared to the friend rules to determine whether the stranger is allowed, blocked or restricted from being a friend with the child. Accordingly, the parent only has to use a minimal amount of time in establishing the friend rules to protect the parent's child from on-line strangers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07809797&OS=07809797&RS=07809797
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 07809797
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070406
---
The present invention relates to the protection of computer system users. More particularly the present invention relates to a system and method of using social metrics in a parental control application.

IM is short for instant message a type of communications service that enables a computer system user to create a kind of private chat room with another computer system user sometimes called an IM friend or buddy in order to communicate in real time over the Internet. IM is analogous to a telephone conversation but using text based not voice based communication.

However an IM friend can be a threat e.g. can be an adult trying to form an unauthorized relationship with a child. Accordingly many parents restrict who is allowed to be an IM friend with their child.

Unfortunately managing a child s IM friends is a tedious task for a parent. Typically the only information available to a parent in deciding whether to allow or block an IM friend is the word of their child and the screen name of the IM friend. Accordingly even after allowing their child to have an IM friend a parent often must repetitively discuss the behavior of the child s IM friends to insure the IM friends are not a threat.

Of course many parents will fail to closely monitor their child s IM friends or their child will not be entirely truthful about the behavior of the child s IM friends. In either event the child has an increased vulnerability to any IM friend that is an actual threat.

In accordance with one embodiment a parent defines friend rules for on line association e.g. IM communication with their child. Upon a request of an on line stranger to be a new friend of the child stranger information about the on line stranger is retrieved and compared to the friend rules to determine whether the stranger is allowed blocked or restricted from being a friend with the child.

In the above manner only if the on line stranger satisfies the criteria established by the parent the on line association between their child and the on line stranger is allowed. Otherwise the on line association between their child and the on line stranger is blocked or restricted e.g. logged for future evaluation by the parent. Accordingly the parent only has to use a minimal amount of time in establishing the friend rules to protect the parent s child from on line strangers.

Embodiments in accordance with the present invention are best understood by reference to the following detailed description when read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Common reference numerals are used throughout the drawings and detailed description to indicate like elements.

In accordance with one embodiment referring to a parent defines friend rules for on line association e.g. IM communication with their child OPERATION . Upon a request of an on line stranger to be a new friend of the child CHECK OPERATION stranger information about the on line stranger is retrieved OPERATION and compared to the friend rules OPERATION to determine whether the stranger is allowed CHECK OPERATION blocked CHECK OPERATION or restricted OPERATION from being a friend with the child.

In the above manner only if the on line stranger satisfies the criteria established by the parent the on line association between their child and the on line stranger is allowed. Otherwise the on line association between their child and the on line stranger is blocked or restricted e.g. logged for future evaluation by the parent. Accordingly the parent only has to use a minimal amount of time in establishing the friend rules to protect the parent s child from on line strangers.

More particularly referring to is a diagram of a client server system that includes a parental control application executing on a child computer system e.g. a first computer system in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention.

Child computer system sometimes called a client or user device typically includes a central processing unit CPU hereinafter processor an input output I O interface and a memory .

Memory includes parental control application and an instant messaging IM application . Instant messaging application is any one of a number of conventional instant messaging applications and the particular instant messaging application is not essential to this embodiment.

Child computer system may further include standard devices like a keyboard a mouse a printer and a display device as well as one or more standard input output I O devices such as a compact disk CD or DVD drive floppy disk drive or other digital or waveform port for inputting data to and outputting data from child computer system . In one embodiment parental control application is loaded into child computer system via I O device such as from a CD DVD or floppy disk containing parental control application .

Child computer system is coupled to a server computer system of client server system by a network . Server computer system typically includes a display device a processor a memory and a network interface .

Further child computer system is also coupled to a stranger computer system and an instant message IM server computer system by network . In one embodiment stranger computer system and IM server computer system are similar to child computer system and or server computer system for example include a central processing unit an input output I O interface and a memory.

Stranger computer system and IM server computer system may further include standard devices like a keyboard a mouse a printer a display device and an I O device s . The various hardware components of stranger computer system and IM server computer system are not illustrated to avoid detracting from the principles of the invention.

IM server computer system is a computer system that manages instant messaging. IM server computer system enables a large number of IM users to exchange information i.e. instant messages in an environment that offers real time discussion capabilities.

To illustrate stranger computer system includes an instant messaging application A similar to instant messaging application of child computer system . IM server computer system manages instant messaging between child computer system using instant messaging application and stranger computer system using instant messaging application A.

In accordance with one embodiment IM server computer system includes stranger information . Stranger information includes information about the user sometimes called a stranger of stranger computer system . Stranger information is discussed further below.

Optionally child computer system is also coupled to a parent computer system by network . In one embodiment parent computer system is similar to child computer system and or server computer system for example include a central processing unit an input output I O interface and a memory.

Parent computer system may further include standard devices like a keyboard a mouse a printer a display device and an I O device s . The various hardware components of parent computer system are not illustrated to avoid detracting from the principles of the invention.

Parent computer system is used to configure parent control application of child computer system according to the preferences of the user of parent computer system e.g. the parent.

In another embodiment the parent configures parental control application using child computer system directly. In accordance with this embodiment parent computer system as a separate computer system is unnecessary and thus not used. Accordingly parent computer system is optional.

Network can be any network or network system that is of interest to a user. In various embodiments network interface and I O interface include analog modems digital modems or a network interface card.

For simplicity of discussion the user of child computer system is herein referred to as a child the user of stranger computer system is herein referred to as a stranger or neighborhood child and the user of parent computer system is herein referred to as the parent. Generally however the user of child computer system is a first user the user of stranger computer system is a second user and the user of parent computer system is a third user providing restrictions on the interactions e.g. instant messaging between the first user and the second user.

To illustrate the first user of child computer system is a corporate employee the second user of stranger computer system is a non employee and the user or of parent computer system is a corporate computer administrator. Any one of a number of relationships between the first user the second user and the third user are possible.

Parental control application is stored in memory of child computer system and executed on child computer system . However in other embodiments some or all of the functionality or modules of parental control application are stored and or executed on computer systems other than child computer system e.g. on parent computer system IM server computer system and or on server computer system .

The particular type of and configuration of child computer system stranger computer system IM server computer system parent computer system and server computer system are not essential to this embodiment of the present invention.

Referring now to parental control application A includes five components in accordance with this embodiment 1 an instant messaging proxy 2 an instant messaging IM communication channel 3 a stranger identification module 4 a parent interface module and 5 a stranger analysis module .

Referring now to and together from an ENTER OPERATION flow moves optionally to a DEFINE CHILD RULES OPERATION . In DEFINE CHILD RULES OPERATION child rules for the child e.g. the user of child computer system are defined by the parent e.g. the user of parent computer system . Illustratively the parent uses parent interface module to define the child rules.

Parent interface module is a mechanism that allows a parent to define the child rules. In one embodiment parent interface module is a web site. In another example parent interface module is an application downloaded to child computer system e.g. from server computer system or elsewhere. Parent interface module stores information e.g. the child rules remotely such as in stranger information on IM server computer system . In another example parent interface module stores information in a local data store on child computer system .

In one embodiment the child rules are the off line rules for the child imposed by defined by the parent. The child rules consist of what where when and how rules or combinations thereof.

A what rule is a rule that defines an activity the child is allowed to participate in. To illustrate what rules include the ratings of the television video games movies and other entertainment that the child is allowed to participate in.

A where rule defines where the child is allowed to participate in an allowable activity. A when rule defines when the child is allowed to participate in an allowable activity. A how rule defines how the child is allowed to participate in an allowable activity. The what where when and how rules are sometimes combined to form the child rules.

In accordance with various embodiments examples of child rules include 1 a child is allowed to play console based video games in their bedroom from 6 PM to 8 PM daily 2 a child can watch television TV in the living room from 5 PM to 6 PM daily 3 a child can only watch TV PG and under shows in their bedroom but can watch TV 14 rated TV shows in the living room with a parent present.

In other embodiments child rules are not limited to entertainment and also include other activities that the child is allowed to participate in. To illustrate child rules include whether the child is allowed sweets e.g. candy caffeinated beverages use of vulgar language use of disrespectful language and use of disrespectful titles. Other examples of child rules include where the child is allowed to be without a parent e.g. at home in the neighborhood in the shopping mall or at a friend s house. Any one of a number of child rules can be defined depending upon the particular restrictions placed on the child by the parent.

By defining child rules for their child parents are able to share as much relevant information about their own values and policies as possible so that the information child rules can be used in making decisions about allowing denying or restricting e.g. monitoring associations between their child and strangers as set forth further below.

From DEFINE CHILD RULES OPERATION or directly from ENTER OPERATION if DEFINE CHILD RULES OPERATION is not perform flow moves to a DEFINE FRIEND RULES OPERATION . In DEFINE FRIEND RULES OPERATION friend rules for association with the child are defined by the parent.

Parent interface module is also a mechanism that allows a parent to define the friend rules. In one embodiment parent interface module is a web site. In another example parent interface module is an application downloaded to child computer system e.g. from server computer system or elsewhere. Parent interface module stores information e.g. the friend rules remotely such as in stranger information on IM server computer system . In another example parent interface module stores information in a local data store on child computer system .

In one embodiment friend rules are the rules that define whether another person e.g. a computer system user such as a stranger is allowed blocked or restricted from associating with e.g. being a friend of the child. More particularly a friend sometimes called an on line buddy is a person allowed to associate with the child as defined by the friend rules. Stranger information e.g. stranger rules about the stranger is compared to the friend rules to determine what type of relationship allowed blocked or restricted the stranger is allowed to have with the child.

In one example friend rules are defined relative to the child rules defined in DEFINE CHILD RULES OPERATION . In a simple example the friend rules require that the stranger rules are the same as the child rules i.e. a person having the exact same rules as the child is allowed to be a friend. This is sometimes called an AND condition.

In another example the friend rules require that the stranger rules are substantially similar to the child rules defined in DEFINE CHILD RULES OPERATION . For example the friend rules require that a first set of the stranger rules is the same as a first set of the child rules yet allow a second set of the stranger rules to be different than a second set of the child rules. In accordance with this example as long as the stranger has a basic set of rules e.g. one rule in common with the child the stranger is allowed to be a friend even though the stranger has other rules that are inconsistent with the rules of the child.

In accordance with another example the friend rules require that a first set of the stranger rules be the same as a first set of the child rules and if the first set of the stranger rules is different than the first set of the child rules then the stranger is blocked from being a friend. In accordance with this example if the stranger does not have a basic set of rules in common with the child the stranger is blocked from being a friend even though the stranger may have other rules that are consistent with the rules of the child.

For example the child rules prohibit the child from using vulgar language eating candy and drinking caffeinated beverages. The friend rules require that if the stranger rules allow the stranger to use vulgar language eat candy or drink caffeinated beverages then the stranger is blocked from being a friend.

In accordance with another example the friend rules require that the stranger rules exist. More particularly if the stranger does not have any stranger rules then the stranger is blocked from being a friend.

In another example the friend rules require that the stranger rules are statistically similar to the child rules defined in DEFINE CHILD RULES OPERATION . For example the friend rules require that the stranger rules are similar to a defined percent e.g. 70 percent to the child rules. In accordance with this example as long as the stranger rules are 70 percent in common with the child the stranger is allowed to be a friend even though the stranger has other rules 30 percent which are inconsistent with the rules of the child.

As set forth above DEFINE CHILD RULES OPERATION is optional and in one embodiment is not performed. In accordance with this embodiment friend rules are defined independent of the child rules which may or may not exist. In one example friend rules are based on specific social networking characteristics metrics and specify thresholds at which the stranger will be allowed blocked or restricted. In one embodiment social networking characteristics are characteristics of the social network of the stranger. The social network is the on line relationships of the stranger. Accordingly in one embodiment the social networking characteristics are the characteristics e.g. the type of on line relationships of the stranger.

In accordance with various embodiments examples of friend rules to be a friend include 1 the stranger must be a friend of more than N e.g. ten of the child s friends 2 the stranger must be a friend of more than N e.g. ten of friends of the child s friends 3 the stranger must have X e.g. 70 of friends in common with the child 4 the stranger must have Y e.g. ten exact friends as the child.

Other examples of friend rules include that the stranger must go to the same school as the child must be in the same age range as the child and or must be in the same geographic vicinity as the child.

In another example the friend rules set forth range conditions i.e. that the values must have a minimum a maximum or a minimum and maximum. The range conditions can be centered on the child rules.

To illustrate various examples the friend rules set forth that the stranger is allowed to be a friend only if the amount of time that the stranger is allowed to play video games is 1 within plus or minus one hour of the amount of time that the child is allowed to play video games 2 no less than one hour per day 3 no more than two hours per day or 4 no less than one hour per day and no more than two hours per day and so forth.

In another example the friend rules require an OR AND or XOR condition. An OR condition requires that the stranger satisfies at least one defined constraint. An AND condition requires that the stranger satisfies all defined constraints. An XOR condition requires that the stranger satisfy one particular constrain. One example of an XOR condition is that if the stranger is a friend of more than N e.g. ten of the child s friends then the stranger is allowed to be a friend. Another example of an XOR condition is that if the stranger is not within a specified geographical range the stranger is blocked from being a friend. Generally any of the friend rules as set forth herein can be considered in any combination e.g. an OR condition an AND condition and or an XOR condition.

Any one of a number of friend rules can be defined depending upon the particular constraints placed upon allowable blocked and or restricted relationships with the child by the parent.

From DEFINE FRIEND RULES OPERATION flow moves to a STRANGER REQUESTING TO BE NEW FRIEND CHECK OPERATION . In STRANGER REQUESTING TO BE NEW FRIEND CHECK OPERATION a determination is made as to whether a stranger is requesting to be a new friend of the child.

If there is not a stranger requesting to be a new friend flow remains at STRANGER REQUESTING TO BE NEW FRIEND CHECK OPERATION . Conversely if a stranger is requesting to be a new friend flow moves from STRANGER REQUESTING TO BE NEW FRIEND CHECK OPERATION to an IDENTIFY STRANGER OPERATION .

Illustratively a stranger is requesting to be a friend of the child by attempting to initiate an IM session with the child. This request is intercepted with instant messaging proxy of parental control application A of .

More particularly IM communication channel supports varying levels of communications in accordance with varying examples. Illustratively IM communication channel supports text only limited HTML or full HTML communications. A stranger using stranger computer system attempts to initiate an IM session with the child over IM communication channel . This attempt is intercepted by instant messaging proxy .

Instant messaging proxy is a component for proxying IM communications over IM communication channel . Instant messaging proxy facilitates capturing intercepting modifying deleting and injection IM messages into both inbound and outbound IM communications over IM communication channel . An inbound IM communication is an IM communication over IM communication channel being sent to received by child computer system . Conversely an outbound IM communication is an IM communication over IM communication channel being sent from transmitted by child computer system .

Accordingly upon a stranger requesting to be a new friend flow moves from STRANGER REQUESTING TO BE NEW FRIEND CHECK OPERATION to IDENTIFY STRANGER OPERATION . In IDENTIFY STRANGER OPERATION the stranger requesting to be a new friend is identified.

In one embodiment stranger identification module is used to identify the stranger. In one example stranger identification module is a third party identification system that requires a stranger to register with the identification system. In another example stranger identification module is built into IM server computer system .

In one embodiment a stranger is identified by a unique identifier e.g. a numeric value. For example the IM communication from the stranger includes a unique identifier encoded in the IM communication. This unique identifier is retrieved and used to identify the stranger in IDENTIFY STRANGER OPERATION .

Generally stranger identification module is a mechanism for identifying the stranger and the particular technique used to identify the stranger is not essential to this embodiment.

From IDENTIFY STRANGER OPERATION flow moves to a RETRIEVE STRANGER INFORMATION OPERATION . In RETRIEVE STRANGER INFORMATION OPERATION stranger information about the stranger is retrieved e.g. from stranger information on IM server computer system .

In one embodiment stranger analysis module and or stranger identification module retrieves the stranger information based on the identification of the stranger in IDENTIFY STRANGER OPERATION . Illustratively the unique identifier of the stranger is used as an index into stranger information e.g. a database of stranger information for many strangers.

In one embodiment the stranger information includes the social network characteristics of the stranger as discussed above. For example the stranger has a parental control application similar or the same as parental control application A running on stranger computer system and the parental control application collects the social network characteristics of the stranger and provides the information. In another example IM server computer system collects the social network characteristics of the stranger and all IM users and provides the information.

In another embodiment the stranger information includes the child rules defined by the parent of the stranger e.g. a neighborhood child. The child rules are provided from their storage location using any one of a number of techniques. The particular technique used to provide the child rules is not essential to this embodiment. However several examples of techniques to provide the child rules are discussed further below in reference to .

From RETRIEVE STRANGER INFORMATION OPERATION flow moves to a COMPARE STRANGER INFORMATION TO FRIEND RULES OPERATION . In COMPARE STRANGER INFORMATION TO FRIEND RULES OPERATION the stranger information is compared to the friend rules for the child to determine if 1 the stranger is allowed to be a new friend CHECK OPERATION 2 the stranger is blocked from being a new friend CHECK OPERATION and 3 the stranger is restricted in being a new friend OPERATION .

In one embodiment stranger analysis module is used to compare the stranger information to the friend rules. The comparison is a comparison matrix in a simple example. In a more complex example the comparison is a fuzzy comparison with a report of statistical similarity.

From COMPARE STRANGER INFORMATION TO FRIEND RULES OPERATION flow moves to a STRANGER ALLOWED TO BE NEW FRIEND CHECK OPERATION . In STRANGER ALLOWED TO BE NEW FRIEND CHECK OPERATION a determination is made as to whether the stranger is allowed to be a new friend. If the stranger is allowed to be a new friend flow moves to an ALLOW STRANGER RELATIONSHIP OPERATION .

In ALLOW STRANGER RELATIONSHIP OPERATION the stranger relationship is allowed i.e. the stranger is allowed to be a new friend. Accordingly IM communications between the stranger and the child are allowed e.g. by instant messaging proxy . From ALLOW STRANGER RELATIONSHIP OPERATION flow moves to and exits at an EXIT OPERATION or returns to STRANGER REQUESTING TO BE NEW FRIEND CHECK OPERATION and awaits the request of the next stranger to be a new friend.

However upon a determination that the stranger is not allowed to be a new friend flow moves from STRANGER ALLOWED TO BE NEW FRIEND CHECK OPERATION to a STRANGER BLOCKED FROM BEING NEW FRIEND CHECK OPERATION . In STRANGER BLOCKED FROM BEING NEW FRIEND CHECK OPERATION a determination is made as to whether the stranger is blocked from being a new friend. If the stranger is blocked from being a new friend flow moves from STRANGER BLOCKED FROM BEING NEW FRIEND CHECK OPERATION to a BLOCK STRANGER RELATIONSHIP OPERATION .

In BLOCK STRANGER RELATIONSHIP OPERATION a relationship with the stranger is blocked. Illustratively any IM communications to or from the stranger are blocked e.g. with instant messaging proxy . Instant messaging proxy injects an instant message notifying the child and or stranger that the relationship is blocked in one example. From BLOCK STRANGER RELATIONSHIP OPERATION flow moves to and exits at EXIT OPERATION or returns to STRANGER REQUESTING TO BE NEW FRIEND CHECK OPERATION and awaits the request of the next stranger to be a new friend.

Conversely upon a determination that the stranger is not blocked from being a new friend flow moves from STRANGER BLOCKED FROM BEING NEW FRIEND CHECK OPERATION to an APPLY STRANGER RESTRICTIONS OPERATION . In accordance with this example the stranger is neither allowed to be a new friend nor is blocked from being a new friend. Accordingly catchall stranger restrictions are applied in APPLY STRANGER RESTRICTIONS OPERATION .

In one embodiment the stranger relationship is allowed however all IM communications between the child and stranger are logged e.g. to server system IM server computer system parent computer system and or child computer system . In this manner the parent can later review the IM communications between the child and the stranger to determine if the relationship should be blocked or allowed to continue. From APPLY STRANGER RESTRICTIONS OPERATION flow moves to and exits at EXIT OPERATION or returns to STRANGER REQUESTING TO BE NEW FRIEND CHECK OPERATION and awaits the request of the next stranger to be a new friend.

In the above manner a parent is able to define friend rules that specify whether a stranger is allowed blocked or restricted from having an IM session with their child. Stranger information about a stranger attempting to be a new friend with their child is retrieved and compared to the friend rules established by the parent. Only if the stranger satisfies the criteria established by the parent the IM session between their child and the stranger is allowed. Otherwise the IM session between their child and the stranger is blocked or restricted e.g. logged for future evaluation by the parent. Accordingly the parent only has to use a minimal amount of time in establishing the friend rules to protect the parent s child from on line strangers.

Although CHECK OPERATION is set forth as proceeding CHECK OPERATION in it is to be understood that the order is not limiting. CHECK OPERATION can occur prior to or simultaneously with CHECK OPERATION .

To illustrate some of the examples set forth above the friend rules require that the stranger rules are the same as the child rules i.e. a person having the exact same rules as the child is allowed to be a friend. Thus if the stranger rules are the same as the child rules a determination is made that the stranger is allowed to be a new friend in CHECK OPERATION and the stranger relationship is allowed in ALLOW STRANGER RELATIONSHIP OPERATION . Conversely if the stranger rules are not the same as the child rules a determination is made that 1 the stranger is not allowed to be a new friend in CHECK OPERATION and 2 that the stranger is not blocked from being a new friend in CHECK OPERATION . Accordingly the stranger restrictions are applied in APPLY STRANGER RESTRICTIONS OPERATION e.g. all IM communications between the child and stranger are logged.

In another example the friend rules require that a first set of the stranger rules be the same as a first set of the child rules yet allow a second set of the stranger rules to be different than a second set of the child rules. In accordance with this example if the stranger has a basic set of rules in common with the child a determination is made that the stranger is allowed to be a friend in CHECK OPERATION and the stranger relationship is allowed in ALLOW STRANGER RELATIONSHIP OPERATION even though the stranger has other rules which are inconsistent with the rules of the child. Conversely if the stranger does not have a basic set of rules in common with the child a determination is made that 1 the stranger is not allowed to be a new friend in CHECK OPERATION and 2 that the stranger is not blocked from being a new friend in CHECK OPERATION . Accordingly the stranger restrictions are applied in APPLY STRANGER RESTRICTIONS OPERATION e.g. all IM communications between the child and stranger are logged.

In accordance with another example the friend rules require that if a first set of the stranger rules is different than a first set of the child rules then the stranger is blocked from being a friend. In accordance with this example if the stranger does not have a basic set of rules in common with the child a determination is made that the stranger is not allowed to be new friend in CHECK OPERATION and a determination is made that the stranger is blocked from being a new friend in CHECK OPERATION . Accordingly the stranger relationship is blocked in BLOCK STRANGER RELATIONSHIP OPERATION e.g. any IM communications to or from the stranger are blocked.

In another example the friend rules require that the stranger rules are similar to a defined percent e.g. 70 percent to the child rules. In accordance with this example if the stranger rules are 70 percent or more in common with the child a determination is made that the stranger is allowed to be a friend in CHECK OPERATION and the stranger relationship is allowed in ALLOW STRANGER RELATIONSHIP OPERATION even though the stranger has other rules which are inconsistent with the rules of the child. Conversely if the stranger rules are 69 percent or less in common with the child a determination is made that 1 the stranger is not allowed to be a new friend in CHECK OPERATION and 2 that the stranger is not blocked from being a new friend in CHECK OPERATION . Accordingly the stranger restrictions are applied in APPLY STRANGER RESTRICTIONS OPERATION e.g. all IM communications between the child and stranger are logged.

In accordance with another example the friend rules require that the stranger must be a friend of more than ten of the child s friends. In accordance with this example if the stranger is a friend of more than ten of the child s friends a determination is made that the stranger is allowed to be a friend in CHECK OPERATION and the stranger relationship is allowed in ALLOW STRANGER RELATIONSHIP OPERATION . Conversely if the stranger is a friend of ten or less e.g. none of the child s friends a determination is made that 1 the stranger is not allowed to be a new friend in CHECK OPERATION and 2 that the stranger is not blocked from being a new friend in CHECK OPERATION . Accordingly the stranger restrictions are applied in APPLY STRANGER RESTRICTIONS OPERATION e.g. all IM communications between the child and stranger are logged.

In accordance with another example the friend rules require that the stranger must be a friend of more than ten of friends of the child s friends. In accordance with this example if the stranger is a friend of more than ten of friends of the child s friends a determination is made that the stranger is allowed to be a friend in CHECK OPERATION and the stranger relationship is allowed in ALLOW STRANGER RELATIONSHIP OPERATION . Conversely if the stranger is a friend of ten or less e.g. none of friends of the child s friends a determination is made that 1 the stranger is not allowed to be a new friend in CHECK OPERATION and 2 that the stranger is not blocked from being a new friend in CHECK OPERATION . Accordingly the stranger restrictions are applied in APPLY STRANGER RESTRICTIONS OPERATION e.g. all IM communications between the child and stranger are logged.

In accordance with another example the friend rules require that the stranger must have 70 or more of friends in common with the child. In accordance with this example if the stranger has 70 or more of friends in common with the child a determination is made that the stranger is allowed to be a friend in CHECK OPERATION and the stranger relationship is allowed in ALLOW STRANGER RELATIONSHIP OPERATION . Conversely if the stranger has 69 or less e.g. none of friends in common with the child a determination is made that 1 the stranger is not allowed to be a new friend in CHECK OPERATION and 2 that the stranger is not blocked from being a new friend in CHECK OPERATION . Accordingly the stranger restrictions are applied in APPLY STRANGER RESTRICTIONS OPERATION e.g. all IM communications between the child and stranger are logged.

In accordance with another example the friend rules require that the stranger must have ten exact friends as the child. In accordance with this example if the stranger has the same ten exact friends as the child a determination is made that the stranger is allowed to be a friend in CHECK OPERATION and the stranger relationship is allowed in ALLOW STRANGER RELATIONSHIP OPERATION . Conversely if the stranger does not have the same ten exact friends as the child a determination is made that 1 the stranger is not allowed to be a new friend in CHECK OPERATION and 2 that the stranger is not blocked from being a new friend in CHECK OPERATION . Accordingly the stranger restrictions are applied in APPLY STRANGER RESTRICTIONS OPERATION e.g. all IM communications between the child and stranger are logged.

Although IM communications are discussed above embodiments are applicable to any electronic communication with a child. For example systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments are applicable to e mail messages texting Short Message Service or SMS on cellular telephones community based video games that have chat functionality myspace Internet Relay Chat IRC Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP or other electronic communications.

Further in another embodiment a parent can identify strangers e.g. other children that their child should be interacting with based on child rules defined by the parent of the stranger. Such an embodiment is set forth below in reference to .

Referring now to parental control application B includes three components in accordance with this embodiment 1 a stranger identification module 2 a parent interface module and 3 a stranger analysis module . Stranger identification module parent interface module and stranger analysis module are similar to stranger identification module parent interface module and stranger analysis module of parental control application A of and so are not discussed in detail.

Referring now to and together parent interface module is used by the parent to define child rules in DEFINE CHILD RULES OPERATION which are stored in stranger information A as discussed above and to define friend rules in DEFINE FRIEND RULES OPERATION .

A stranger e.g. a child in the neighborhood requests to be a new friend of the child and flow moves through CHECK OPERATION and IDENTIFY STRANGER OPERATION . In accordance with one embodiment the operation of the stranger requesting to be a new friend of the child is a real life operation. For example the stranger hereinafter referred to as the neighborhood child for ease of discussion comes to the door of the house in which the child lives.

In RETRIEVE STRANGER INFORMATION OPERATION the child rules established for the neighborhood child are retrieved. In accordance with this embodiment the parent of the neighborhood child has previously established child rules for the neighborhood child which are stored in stranger information A as child rules A as discussed above.

In accordance with one embodiment the neighborhood child simply provides their name which the parent inputs using parent interface module . Stranger identification module uses the neighborhood child s name as an index into stranger information A to pull the particular child rules for the neighborhood child in RETRIEVE STRANGER INFORMATION OPERATION .

However due to privacy concerns other lookup mechanisms not using the neighborhood child s name are used in other embodiments. For example the neighborhood child or the parent of the neighborhood child provides an index sometimes called a lookup code which the parent inputs using parent interface module . Stranger identification module uses the lookup code as an index into stranger information A to pull the particular child rules for the neighborhood child in RETRIEVE STRANGER INFORMATION OPERATION

In yet another embodiment as shown in the neighborhood child provides a tangible media having a neighborhood child identifier e.g. a unique eight digit ID. Neighborhood child identifier is an index into stranger information A that is used to pull the particular child rules for the neighborhood child in RETRIEVE STRANGER INFORMATION OPERATION .

For example tangible media is a tear off sheet i.e. a piece of paper that contains a unique lookup code i.e. neighborhood child identifier for the neighborhood child.

In another embodiment tangible media is a microchip that contains a unique lookup code i.e. neighborhood child identifier for the neighborhood child. The neighborhood child carries the microchip or otherwise has the microchip attached e.g. on a wristband or embedded within the neighborhood child. The parent retrieves neighborhood child identifier from the microchip e.g. by scanning the microchip or otherwise. Another example of tangible media is a Radio frequency identification RFID tag.

The parent enters the neighborhood child identifier using parent interface module and stranger identification module retrieves the particular child rules for the neighborhood child in RETRIEVE STRANGER INFORMATION OPERATION .

In accordance with another embodiment the neighborhood child provides their particular child rules using a tangible media as illustrated in . In accordance with one example tangible media is a Cardspace or OpenID identity e.g. a card containing a microchip containing child rules A for the neighborhood child. The parent retrieves child rules A from tangible media e.g. by scanning tangible media by placing tangible media into a card reader or otherwise.

From RETRIEVE STRANGER INFORMATION OPERATION COMPARE STRANGER INFORMATION TO FRIEND RULES OPERATION is performed as discussed above. Based on the comparison the parent is notified whether the neighborhood child is allowed to be a new friend in STRANGER ALLOWED TO BE NEW FRIEND CHECK OPERATION is block from being a new friend in STRANGER BLOCKED FROM BEING NEW FRIEND CHECK OPERATION or whether stranger restriction should be applied in APPLY STRANGER RESTRICTIONS OPERATION . The parent can then decide whether to allow the relationship with the neighborhood child OPERATION to block the relationship with the neighborhood child OPERATION or to otherwise restrict the relationship.

In one embodiment parent control application B only indicates whether the relationship with the neighborhood child should be allowed blocked or restricted. More particularly the child rules for the neighborhood child are not disclosed ensuring privacy for the neighborhood child.

However in another embodiment the child rules for the neighborhood child are disclosed. For example the parent of the neighborhood child wishes that the child rules for the neighborhood child are disclosed. In this manner the parent can monitor the neighborhood child to prevent the child rules for the neighborhood child from being violated.

Referring again to parental control application is in computer memory . As used herein a computer memory refers to a volatile memory a non volatile memory or a combination of the two.

Although parental control application is referred to as an application this is illustrative only. Parental control application should be capable of being called from an application or the operating system. In one embodiment an application is generally defined to be any executable code. Moreover those of skill in the art will understand that when it is said that an application or an operation takes some action the action is the result of executing one or more instructions by a processor.

While embodiments in accordance with the present invention have been described for a client server configuration an embodiment of the present invention may be carried out using any suitable means and or hardware configuration involving a personal computer a workstation a portable device or a network of computer devices. Other network configurations other than client server configurations e.g. peer to peer web based intranet internet network configurations are used in other embodiments.

Herein a computer program product comprises a medium configured to store or transport computer readable code in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Some examples of computer program products are CD ROM discs DVDs ROM cards floppy discs magnetic tapes computer hard drives servers on a network and signals transmitted over a network representing computer readable code. In another embodiment a computer program product comprises a tangible medium configured to store computer readable code including CD ROM discs DVDs ROM cards floppy discs magnetic tapes computer hard drives and servers on a network.

As illustrated in this medium may belong to the computer system itself. However the medium also may be removed from the computer system. For example parental control application may be stored in memory that is physically located in a location different from processor . Processor should be coupled to the memory . This could be accomplished in a client server system or alternatively via a connection to another computer via modems and analog lines or digital interfaces and a digital carrier line.

More specifically in one embodiment child computer system and or server computer system is a portable computer a workstation a two way pager a cellular telephone a digital wireless telephone a personal digital assistant a server computer an Internet appliance or any other device that includes components that can execute the parental control functionality in accordance with at least one of the embodiments as described herein. Similarly in another embodiment child computer system and or server computer system is comprised of multiple different computers wireless devices cellular telephones digital telephones two way pagers or personal digital assistants server computers or any desired combination of these devices that are interconnected to perform the methods as described herein.

In view of this disclosure the parental control functionality in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention can be implemented in a wide variety of computer system configurations. In addition the parental control functionality could be stored as different modules in memories of different devices. For example parental control application could initially be stored in server computer system and then as necessary a portion of parental control application could be transferred to child computer system and executed on child computer system . Consequently part of the parental control functionality would be executed on processor of server computer system and another part would be executed on processor of child computer system . In view of this disclosure those of skill in the art can implement various embodiments of the present invention in a wide variety of physical hardware configurations using an operating system and computer programming language of interest to the user.

In yet another embodiment parental control application is stored in memory of server computer system . Parental control application is transferred over network to memory in child computer system . In this embodiment network interface and I O interface would include analog modems digital modems or a network interface card. If modems are used network includes a communications network and parental control application is downloaded via the communications network.

This disclosure provides exemplary embodiments of the present invention. The scope of the present invention is not limited by these exemplary embodiments. Numerous variations whether explicitly provided for by the specification or implied by the specification or not may be implemented by one of skill in the art in view of this disclosure.

