---

title: Conformable self-healing ballistic armor
abstract: A conformable self-healing ballistic armor protective structure has a shell formed of a laminated cloth material having outer and inner lamellae. The outer lamella of the laminated material is a ballistic cloth and the inner lamella is a soft, conformable self-healing, rubber compound. The shell is filled preferably with multiplicity of ceramic particles disposed in a fluid.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07966923&OS=07966923&RS=07966923
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07966923
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070628
---
The invention described herein was made by employees of and is assigned to The United States Government.

In one aspect this invention relates to ballistic armor structures. More particularly this invention relates to a ballistic armor which is conformable to a wide variety of vehicles or structures.

The use of ceramics and ballistic cloth as part of ballistic protective armor systems is well known because of the light weight of these materials as compared to steel and other solid metallic armor. Ceramics are distinguished by a high hardness and very rigid structure. When used for ballistic protection it is essential that the ceramic chosen be able to withstand the substantial shock load caused by an incident projectile and yet have some deformation protection. A typical ceramic armor structure has a ceramic material on its outer surface designed to withstand the shock of an incoming projectile. It is common to provide a fibrous or metal backing material behind the ceramic to support and withstand the deformation of the ceramic as it is impacted. In such a structure the ceramic component will exhibit brittle breaking behavior. When the ceramic material receives a focused strike which initiates a crack the ceramic material will undergo continuous cracking or crazing throughout its contiguous volume. Thus a ceramic piece is effectively destroyed over its contiguous volume when struck by a projectile having sufficient energy to initiate cracking.

This problem is ameliorated by reducing the size of the contiguous portions of the ceramic as by mounting small ceramic segments or plates over the entire face of the flexible backing material. This will minimize the surface area left unprotected when a single segment or plate is destroyed. Generally for smaller sized vehicles such as light trucks ceramic plates on the order of 1 square inch have been found to provide a high degree of protection. Use of such small plates minimizes the damage to the overall structure from the incursion of an individual projectile and the associated destruction of one or two plates. Thus multiple projectiles can be stopped by such a mosaic structure of ceramic segments or plates the remaining danger being when numerous rounds repeatedly strike the same small area. For larger vehicles such as military combat vehicles larger ceramic segments or tiles of a size on the order of 2 3 square inches provide effective protection from the larger projectiles normally faced by such vehicles. In such bigger vehicles the larger ceramic tiles are generally thick enough to withstand multiple smaller projectiles without losing integrity.

While ceramic materials provide extremely good protection the production of such protective mosaic structures made up of such small ceramic segments or tiles is extremely costly. Thus ceramics alone are not feasible as a protective means for a large surface in most applications. Furthermore such structures are produced as plate mosaics i.e. shaped collections of smaller ceramic tiles sized and shaped to overlay specific vehicle areas while mating with specific edges of complementary armor sections. Thus such plate mosaics must be manufactured to a rigidly predetermined shape. This makes it difficult or impossible to transfer or otherwise remove armoring plate mosaics from one vehicle and place this armor on a vehicle other than the vehicle type for which a particular plate mosaic was manufactured.

There are a number of considerations to be examined when generating a ballistic structure especially for mobile applications. A primary consideration is weight. Protective ballistic armor for heavy mobile military equipment such as tanks or large ships is a well developed art. Such armor usually comprises a very thick layer of alloy steel which provides protection against most heavy and explosive particles. Such vehicles or vessels are frequently capable of selectively adding further armor protection when they are deployed in combat zones. If such armor protection can be made more effective the weight of the heavy armor could be reduced while still allowing the armor to defeat projectiles of comparable threat levels. Reduction of armor weight even for heavy equipment supplied with large prime movers is an advantage since it reduces the strain on all vehicle components and reduces operating costs. For these same reasons current heavyweight armor is also less desirable for the light weight tactical vehicles which form the majority of any military vehicle fleet. Performance of tactical vehicles such as heavy trucks light trucks and support vehicles is substantially compromised by steel panels having a thickness of more than a few millimeters because of the extreme weight each millimeter of steel armor adds to vehicle weight. For example in the case of a light truck steel armor sufficient to stop rifle projectiles can degrade performance on a hill grade to such an extent that the truck can only achieve the speed of a person walking.

Despite such shortcomings armor for light vehicles is expected to prevent penetration from the threats posed by the common 7.62 mm military rifles small arms and shrapnel from improvised explosive devices. In today s modern warfare armor piercing projectiles even from military rifles represent a substantial threat and would require a relatively thick steel armor typically of more weight than a light vehicle can carry.

Another consideration for military vehicles is cost. Overly complex armor arrangements particularly those that depend upon laminated synthetic fibers consolidated using sophisticated resins and manufacturing techniques can make manufacture of armor prohibitively expensive for large fleets of small vehicles.

A third consideration in armor design is adaptability most ceramic and metal armors are essentially flat rigid plates and have little if any conformability. Manufacture of complex or conformable shapes using metal or laminated fibers which allow the resulting armor sub components to be inserted into existing voids in a vehicle is nonexistent.

Yet another consideration in ceramic structures is the fact that ceramic plates are brittle and subject to fracture in handling and manufacturing which results in waste and additional cost.

It is an object of this invention to provide a conformable self healing ballistic structure which is effective against standard military projectiles and which can be readily attached to more than one type of vehicle.

It is a further object of the invention to provide a ballistic panel which is effective in resisting a plurality of projectiles impacting on the same general area.

The present invention comprises a conformable self healing ballistic armor protective structure which is formed as a laminated casing or shell with at least two layers. The laminated shell is made with an outer layer of a ballistic material or cloth designed to provide penetration resistance. The laminated container of the ballistic armor has a second inner layer of a soft self healing plastic material. The inner layer is designed to allow any openings formed by projectile incursion to close so as to retain a filler material within the container.

The present ballistic structure s container or shell is formed to surround a fillable void or pocket into which is placed filler material. The filler material is designed to aid in shock absorption or detention of projectiles upon their incursion into the ballistic structure. Materials for suitably filling the pocket formed by the shell may include various particulate and or fluidic materials.

Referring to the accompanying drawing in which like numerals refer to like parts and initially to a conformable self healing ballistic armor protective structure is shown. The particular configuration of one unit of the ballistic armor shown in has a laminated casing or shell forming a pocket with a fillable void of generally rectangular cross section. It is to be understood however that one object this invention is to provide ballistic armor comprising an array of multiple units of laminated casings each of which is conformable. Thus the device being comprised of multiple units of the individual filled shells can be shaped to various configurations to fit into various vehicle compartments or to fit comformably onto various vehicle surfaces. One or more suitably sized units of shell could even be placed between panels of a vehicle such that when each shell is filled the one or more shells would adapt to fill the surrounding space.

The casing or shell of the subject invention is preferably formed as hollow fillable units suitably sized for use in an arrayed plurality of panels of shells to cover a vehicle or fill a void vehicle compartment. As shown in the casing or shell comprises a multilayered ballistic material with at least one outer layer of ballistic material and a self healing inner layer . A fillable void formed within inner layer is filled with a filler material as detailed below.

More specifically shell comprises a flexible laminate of two lamellae and with the outer lamella being chosen from materials that provide ballistic protection from projectiles such as small arms fire and shrapnel. Generally this layer would be formed of a ballistic cloth of synthetic fibers known for their resistance to projectiles. Such cloth may incorporate Kevlar or similar aramid containing polymeric materials. Instead of or in addition to such materials heavy tear resistant polyester glass polyamide ballistic nylon and similar fabrics can be used either in combination as fibers or as part of a multi layered cloth.

In the embodiment shown in the shell of the present structure has only two lamellae and however it is understood that multiple layers of material having different ballistic resistant qualities and self healing properties could be combined into a multi layered structure to provide enhanced protection. A multilayered cloth would have different layers and possibly more being chosen for complementary properties such as ballistic resistance chemical resistance flame retardancy and flexibility. For example it may be desirable to have a third outermost layer with increased wear and scratch resistance on the face of the shell to provide a covering which protects a more ballistically active layer such as Kevlar.

To increase fabric resistance to leakage of fillers under normal operating conditions the cloth comprising lamellae and and possibly other lamellae can be coated with various fluid impermeable materials such as polyvinyl chloride polyurethane or neoprene. The multilayered fabrics whether coated or uncoated may be chosen for the degree of flexibility so that they can be rolled folded or otherwise collapsed when empty for storage or transportation to the area where the panel is to be attached or used. In addition to fluid impermeable coatings the outer surface of the lamella or of another outer layer of the ballistic cloth could be coated with electromagnetic energy absorbing materials which would reduce the radar or thermal signature of the ballistic fabric. Other coatings might include camouflage nuclear or biological protective or flame retardant coatings depending on the expected conditions in which the vehicle is to operate.

The inner self healing layer of the laminated casing or shell of the present structure would generally be a soft conformable self healing rubber type compound or a soft self healing plastic material. Such compounds have good cohesive structure in that they tend to adhere to themselves such that when a projectile passes through the inner layer into the filled interior of a unit of the ballistic structure any hole will tend to close rapidly behind the projectile. This helps contain any fluid or particulate material within the pocket formed by inner layer of the shell . Natural rubbers and similar thermoplastic materials i.e. ethylene propylene diene monomer and polyurethane materials such as Tyreliner represent possible filler materials useful for filling the pocket in self healing layer . The soft self healing layer also could be covered by or incorporate a scrim or other fibrous reinforcing material which would help consolidate and hold the self healing layer in position.

The laminated shell is shown with a selectively closable filler opening located near the top of the shell which allows the filling material to be placed into the pocket or void formed by layer of shell filling the internal volume and providing additional ballistic resistance. A closable filler opening comprising a threaded wide mouth aperture with a threaded stopper would be sufficient to provide the kind of access required by this invention and further description of such commonly known selectively sealable openings is omitted in the interest of brevity. As shown the ballistic armor structure also has a second selectively closable aperture located near the bottom of the casing which could be used for draining or otherwise removing the filler from the inner layer allowing the shell to be collapsed and folded for storage and or transportation. Obviously only a single selectively closable opening is necessary to allow filler material to be added or removed selectively from the shell but a second opening located in a lower position on shell may facilitate and speed such operation.

In an alternative embodiment of the subject invention the inner layer may be manufactured without a selectively closable opening such that the filler material is placed within the pocket formed within layer on a one time basis at the time of fabrication.

Each unit of shell of the ballistic armor of the subject invention further comprises fastening means to attach each such shell to the vehicle to be armored. In the preferred embodiment shown in fastening means of the shell comprises one fastener half of a hook and loop fastener combination attached on one side of the casing . Where fastening means is such a fastener half it can be used in combination with the mating complementary fastener half attached on a vehicle structure or other area to be protected to hold the shell in position. The hook and loop fastener an easily manufactured device commercially available as Velcro provides a lightweight mounting system useful in holding ballistic protection devices on the sides of vehicles or buildings. Other fastening means well known to the fastening art such as clipping with one or more clips per unit bolting with one or more bolts per unit adhering a unit with a suitable adhesive and the like would also be suitable for selectively affixing the conformable ballistic armor to the vehicle is a secure manner both on a temporary or permanent basis.

The ballistic armor of this invention may have one or more filler materials which may be comprised of either a solid and or liquid material. Solid fillers useful in the practice of this invention will generally be comprised of uniform shaped particles. The particles could be metallic plastic glass or ceramic compositions. Each particle composition will have different resistance properties to the incursion of a projectile. Ceramics provide a quality of abrasive high resistance to projectiles at a relatively light weight thus they represent a preferred particle composition for a filler material . Suitable ceramic materials would include alumina as well as various metal aluminates and silicates. Silicon carbides and silicon nitrites would also be acceptable ceramic materials however these materials tend to be extremely expensive and it is believed that aluminates and silicates would be preferred materials for use as filler .

Generally prior art ceramic particles have been rounded or spherical in nature. The particles contemplated to comprise filler in one preferred embodiment of this invention will have two or more projections or arms extending outward so that the shaped particles will interlock with adjoining shaped particles to resist displacement upon the incursion of a projectile.

In addition to or instead of containing particles the laminated shell may contain a liquid or gel material as filler material . Depending on the threat to be defeated the ballistic fabric of lamella may provide the majority of antiballistic protection needed and the liquid or gel material of filler can provide additional protection as well as filling the shell to its desired configuration. When used in a vehicle cavity a liquid filler will cause the shell to conform to and fill the cavity. In the simplest case the interior of the present casing can be filled with a fluid filler such as water or other relatively fluid liquid material which will disburse shock and hold the projectile once it enters the structure. Where additional absorptive capacity is necessary a dilatant gel would make excellent filler . Such dilatant gels flow freely and conform readily under normal conditions. However when they are subjected to a shock force they resist movement and absorb additional energy. One example of a commercially available dilatant compound is Dow Corning 3179 Dilatant Compound a commercially available siloxane with fillers.

The addition of fire or flame retardant type materials to the filler material whether the chosen filler be particulate liquid gel or some combination of these would be beneficial to the present invention. Such materials would suppress fire damage by projectiles which tend to cause fires when they strike a target. Having flame retardantcy either in the filler or in the outer ballistic fabric will provide additional protection for a vehicle s occupants.

In a preferred embodiment the filler material used in the subject conformable self healing ballistic structure of the subject invention would comprise both types of filler materials such that the shaped ceramic particles described above would be disposed in a dilatant gel within layer of each casing . The resulting structure would have a gel surrounding the uniform ceramic particles and filling the void volume left between the solid particles. The combination of gel and ceramic particles results in an enhanced filler wherein the gel provides a lubricating quality allowing close particle packing within the structure and provides an expansion resistant force to hold the particles in position when a projectile intrudes. The gel provides a stabilizing matrix material which will maximize the resistance of the particles to physical separation thus increasing the resistance of the particles to the projectile while allowing the solids to reassume their packed interlocking position once the projectile is stopped. Also the gel will provide a stabilizing medium should the shaped ceramic particles become broken or crushed by the incursion of projectiles. The resulting stabilized ceramic laden gel will be highly abrasive and thus resistant to projectiles allowing the structure to continue to defeat projectiles even after an initial projectile volley is sustained by the ballistic structure.

Various alterations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of this invention and it is understood this invention is limited only by the following claims.

