---

title: System and method for allocating tickets using a draft
abstract: The present invention is a system and method that enables individuals, partnerships, companies and any other entity to ease the ownership and administration of ticket lots and other properties by alleviating the difficulties mentioned above. The system achieves this by providing a utility to build ticket or time-share member groups by matching compatible users and to allocate to the group's members shares of ticket lots or access to properties by time-share or rental. The system establishes user compatibility and ticket and property allocation based on requirements, preferences and attributes of the group, the ticket or property, and the system users. For example, a website based on the system of the present invention can be used by a holder of a season ticket package in order to connect with website users seeking a share of such tickets, form a member group of such users that are compatible with parameters set by the season ticket holder, and automatically allocate the tickets equitably to group members based on ticket event attributes, requirements and preferences indicated by the members and ticket allocation rules set by the ticket holder.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08577748&OS=08577748&RS=08577748
owner: Draftix, Inc.
number: 08577748
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070925
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 60 846 861 filed Sep. 25 2006.

Obtaining and administering season tickets for events such as sporting entertainment and cultural events can provide the holder many benefits. Consistent and known seating assignments preferential treatment and access to tickets for difficult to obtain events such as sports playoffs is greatly simplified. However a significant barrier to owning season tickets is their cost due to the number of tickets that must be purchased. For example season tickets for Major League Baseball require the purchase of eighty one regular season game plus exhibition games. Few people have the time interest or finances to attend eighty one games every season. Similar barriers exist for owning and using properties such as real estate vehicles tools and equipment. The purchase storage and insurance costs that come with owning these properties are prohibitive for many especially in relation to the frequency with which these properties are used. Ticket groups and property timeshare groups whereby multiple people combine to share the costs and usage of tickets and properties respectively provide an option to mitigate these barriers.

Through the use of a ticket group multiple people can obtain a multiple event ticket package attend the number of events they want reduce their individual expense and still get the benefits of a ticket package holder. This approach has its drawbacks too. First building a group of people with the intent to share tickets requires finding a number of people with the compatible interests. Second the administration of the group and tickets can be a difficult and time consuming process. For instance rules must be built governing the distribution an equitable allocation process must be agreed upon event and attendance preferences must be gathered from multiple individuals ticket allocation must be performed monetary contributions must be gathered and tickets must be distributed to each individual. This process is difficult enough to preclude people from acquiring ticket packages such as season tickets. Furthermore many people can not add enough members to a group to make the purchase of season tickets financially viable for the members. Though a group for time sharing properties such as vacation homes cars aircraft and specialty tools and equipment may likewise benefit group members similar problems confront building and administering a property time share group.

The present invention is a system and method that enables individuals partnerships companies and any other entity to ease the ownership and administration of ticket lots and other properties by alleviating the difficulties mentioned above. The system achieves this by providing a utility to build ticket or time share member groups by matching compatible users and to allocate to the group s members shares of ticket lots or access to properties by time share or rental. The system establishes user compatibility and ticket and property allocation based on requirements preferences and attributes of the group the ticket or property and the system users. For example a website based on the system of the present invention can be used by a holder of a season ticket package in order to connect with website users seeking a share of such tickets form a member group of such users that are compatible with parameters set by the season ticket holder and automatically allocate the tickets equitably to group members based on ticket event attributes requirements and preferences indicated by the members and ticket allocation rules set by the ticket holder. The system helps group members reduce individual costs through ticket sharing draw from a wider audience to create groups and exchange tickets and payments in a trusted environment. The preferred embodiment of the system comprises machine readable computer instructions stored on a memory medium of a computer server a database for holding information concerning users groups and items such as tickets or properties for sharing and a computer processor for executing the instructions to send and receive information from users via a telecommunications network and to allocate the items based on parameters set by users and stored in the database.

The machine readable computer instructions of the preferred embodiment of the ticket allocation system comprise five distinct software application modules components administrator and group establishment module user registration module selection and notification module trading module and commerce module. These modules are stored in the memory medium of one or more of the system computer servers that use information collected by the modules from system users and other sources which is stored in one or more database servers . Stored information concerns users groups and items for sharing such as tickets or properties. A computer processor in the system executes the instruction modules to send and receive information from users via a telecommunications network analyze stored information and allocate shared items based on information stored in database server that represents attributes requirements and preferences parameters set by users. The servers may act as a web server. The main software components of the system may use the Windows 2003 operating system. The operating system may use Internet Information Server IIS version 6.0. The database software residing on the database server may be a database engine such as Microsoft SQL Server 2005. The commerce module may use Payflow Pro a PayPal payment processing service via an Application Programming Interface API . The system s computer instructions may be written using Microsoft s ASP.NET version 2.0 SQL Server 2000 Transact SQL and Javascript. The system may be accessed by users through a graphical user interface GUI that is accessible over the Internet or other public network .

The administration and group establishment module ACE provides a function for a user to create a group by registering as the group s administrator establishing rules that govern the group and indicating factual details concerning the event s for which the group is established. Events handled by the system may be ticketed events or defined access to use a property. The ACE module enables the administrator to build a group consisting of other system users that are the group members and to do so by inviting other users to accept membership in the group or enabling other users to apply for membership in the group and be accepted or rejected as members .

Events may be sport games exhibitions theatre cultural events concerts and defined dates and times for using properties such as real or personal property. Examples of such real or personal property include motor vehicles aircraft watercraft single family homes condos apartments services equipment and tools. A ticket may be issued by an event sponsor organizer or venue. A ticket in the system of the present invention not only refers to a conventional printed or bar coded ticket for an event such as a concert or game but may also refer to defined date and time access to use personal property or real property including real property that is itself a conventional time share to a vacation home. Accordingly an administrator that owns a conventional time share may create and administer a group to allocate tickets that each provide a group member with a right to use the conventional time share right on a specified date.

If a user wishes to create a new group and act as the administrator the user must access the GUI of the ACE module via a telecommunications network to create a new group account and register as the group s administrator. The ACE module GUI enables the user to input into the system databases in the database server information such as the user s name street address phone number credit card bank account or other payment information and email address. The ACE module may confirm the validity format or completeness of the user s information including by accessing external entities and data sources and thereafter accept the user as the administrator of the nascent group. The ACE module enables the administrator to establish a user name and unique password. The ACE module is used by the administrator to input information concerning the event for which the group was established such as property or sports event description duration of event venue location seats locations number of tickets number of ticket sets cost of tickets parking pass availability fees number of allowable members number of events rules and other pertinent information. The administrator may use the ACE module to define the cost of each available ticket or ticket set including on a per event basis. The ACE module also collects from the administrator an indication of the group s rules.

The ACE module may interface with published event calendars from data sources and automatically populate the group s GUI with a selectable event calendar. For example when the event is season tickets for a particular baseball team the system may display a calendar in the GUI consisting of all games in that team s home season which the administrator may use to inform the system databases at database server which tickets are available to the group. Alternatively the ACE module may collect from the administrator specific dates entered by the administrator of only those games for which tickets are available in the group. In either case the system can use the saved date information to produce a GUI calendar that indicates the dates of event for which tickets are available to the group. The ACE module may also collect from the administrator an indication of whether the administrator owns or controls the event tickets at the time of group creation or whether the tickets need to be purchased by the administrator once the group achieves a number of members defined by the administrator . The ACE module may also collect from the administrator the minimum and or maximum number of group members that the system should allow. Alternatively the ACE module may automatically calculate and set or propose the maximum or minimum membership thresholds based on the group s number of events number of ticket sets to each event number of tickets cost of tickets and or an administrator defined price or price range for each member . Setting the membership number thresholds may also take into account the divisibility of the membership number into the number of ticket sets tickets and event occurrences in the group.

The ACE module is also used to collect the administrator s preferred or required attributes of potential group members . In any group the administrator may or may not elect to be a member that receives tickets under the group s ticket allocation process. All information provided via the ACE module may be stored in the system s database server s .

The administrator may use the ACE module to invite an individual from the public into the group. To do so the administrator must input into the ACE module the individual s email address or other contact information such as instant message or street address. The system of the present invention may utilize a software application module to generate and send one or more email voice instant or other messages to the individual over telecommunications network which may include an invitation to join the group logon information such as a system established user name and password for the individual and the web site URL. The ACE module may also automatically insert into the message or display any of the group rules event ticket or membership information provided to the ACE module by the administrator during group creation.

An invited individual may logon and register as a system user using the User Registration UR module. The newly registered user may view a display of the invitation from the administrator and indicate rejection or acceptance of the group membership invitation. Alternatively the new user may reject or accept membership by replying to the system s invitational message. The administrator may indicate in the ACE module a rule that permits the system to automatically accept an invited individual once it registers as a system user using the logon information provided previously in the invitational message. This rule allows the individual to accept membership by logging on and registering or reject membership by not taking any action. Alternatively a group rule may require that the registration of the new user include input of user preferences requirements and or attributes which the system may use to determine whether there is predetermined level of compatibility with the preferences requirements and or attributes of the group. If the compatibility level is achieved the user may be automatically accepted into the group. The compatibility level requirement may be set as a default by the system or set by the administrator as a group rule.

The administrator may set a rule that implements a system function whereby the system modules compare the group s attributes preferences and or requirements against the attributes preferences and or requirements of registered users that may not be known to the administrator and subsequently send one or more messages either to the administrator indicating compatible users or to the users indicating a compatible group. Such messages may be displayed to the administrator or users using the system s GUI. Also in a fashion similar to the previously described process whereby users are invited by the administrator and accepted into group membership messages may be automatically generated and sent by the system to compatible users whereupon such users may be accepted as group members by the system either automatically or with approval by the administrator . The system will continue in this fashion until membership of the group satisfies the group s rule concerning minimum or maximum membership number.

Additionally an individual seeking to join a group may register as a system user using the UR module and apply to join an existing group using the system s messaging functions. The administrator may set a group rule that requires the system to automatically accept or reject the user into the group membership based on the group rules established by the administrator . Alternatively the system may generate and send or GUI display a message to the administrator concerning the user s desire to join as well as optionally the user s preferences requirements or attributes whereupon the system will then enable the administrator to approve or reject the user s application. Preferences requirements and attributes may be based on property or event details property location seat location number of seats per game weekday month specific dates number of event occurrences game commitment payment or credit card information or verification intended use of tickets e.g. personal or business geographic location user age gender marital or familial status and for sporting events which team the user prefers. The system may generate a message to the user advising that the user it is not eligible for membership based on low compatibility. The system may be used to propose the creation of new groups based upon compatibility amongst users . The system is also capable of informing a group administrator of all user requests to join the group. If a user s request to join a group is accepted by the group administrator the system may be set to provide a message to the requesting user that is the aforementioned invitational message to join the group. The system also provides a function available to the administrator whereby the system will automatically send an invitational message to join a group to any user that requests to join as a member of that group. Upon receipt of a request from a user seeking to become a group member the system is able to automatically generate and send or display a message to the administrator with details on the user such as the user s attributes preferences or requirements. The administrator will then message or log on to the system and dispose of approve reject approve with conditions the user s application for membership. This option can be used to guarantee payment for tickets prior to the ticket allocation. For example if membership requires that group member purchase two seats for ten games at 25 per seat the system may require user pay 500 or some other amount online via multiple payment options prior to the user becoming a member and being allowed into the allocation process. Requiring this prior payment could be a condition for approving a user s application for membership. Users can only join groups that have a ticket allocation date in the future and where a maximum number of group members has not been reached.

The ACE module enables the group administrator to create rules that will govern the ticket allocation process. A rule may govern the number of tickets each member will acquire or commit to acquiring. For example the administrator may require the same number of events tickets or ticket sets per member . The administrator may set a rule that allows members to request allocation of a specified number of tickets ticket sets or events. The administrator may set a rule that excludes certain games from the group allocation. The administrator may set a rule that determines whether the system will allocate tickets automatically based on member preferences and requirement or whether the group members will manually select their tickets from a list of available tickets. The system is capable of processing all event requirement and preferences information of the members and thereafter allocating tickets to the members in order to satisfy or match the most requirements and or preferences of the members equitably across all the members . This mode of allocating tickets may result in whole or partial satisfaction of all requirements and preferences of all the members .

The ACE module enables the administrator to set rules concerning how to divide tickets for each event. If a group holds a certain number of seats per event the administrator may divide these tickets into ticket sets. For example using eight as the number of tickets per event the administrator could define four sets of two tickets or one set of four tickets and two sets of two tickets or one set of eight tickets. In order to eliminate the potential that some members are allocated tickets to more events than other members the group administrator may reduce the number of available events or ticket sets to a number that is divisible by a natural number of members without a fractional remainder. For example the system will prompt the group administrator to define a number of members that divides in this manner into the number of games or ticket sets in the season. The administrator may remove enough games or ticket sets from availability to the group until the divisible number is achieved thereby resulting in each member share being eligible for the same number of tickets. The administrator s rules may allow any group member to purchase more than one position in the ticket allocation.

The ACE module assigns a unique list identifier to each group member . For example sequential numbers may be used as list identifiers. The ACE module may assign randomly or based on order of acceptance into the group a unique list identifier to one or more members or allow the administrator to assign a unique list identifier to one or more members .

An allocation administration rule is also applied to the members list identifiers in order to establish the relative pick positions of the members . A single draft administration rule can be used to govern the grant of pick positions for all the rounds of the allocation. Alternatively different allocation administration rules may be used for different rounds of the draft. The allocation administration rule options available include sequential progression regression random and other formulae.

According to the sequential allocation administration rule the members are granted relative pick positions such that the position of each member s pick relative to the position of the other members picks is the same as the position of the member s assigned list identifier relative to the position of the other members allocation list identifiers. The rule is available where to the allocation list identifier are of a type that indicate a relative position in relation to other allocation list identifiers such as sequential numbers or alphabet letters. For example where the allocation list identifiers are a sequence of consecutive numbers from one to the number of members a member assigned the number one as its allocation list identifier would be granted the first pick the member assigned the number two as its allocation list identifier would be granted the second allocation pick and so forth until the member assigned the number equal to the number of members would be granted the last pick of the allocation round in question.

According to the progression regression allocation administration rule where the list identifiers are of a type that indicate a relative position in relation to other allocation list identifiers the system grants the member with the first allocation list identifier the first allocation pick the member with the second allocation list identifier the second pick and so forth until the member with the last allocation list identifier is granted the last pick of the first round of the allocation. For the second round the members are granted allocation picks in an order that is reverse of the order granted in the first round. This ordering scheme is repeated for all subsequent rounds such that allocation picks in odd numbered rounds are granted to members in the same order as the first round while allocation picks for even numbered rounds are granted to members in the same order as the second round.

With a random allocation administration rule the members relative positions will be randomly identified by the system . With random selections the members allocation list identifiers need not indicate relative positions to each other. The system is capable of implementing other allocation administration rules that are a function of logic formulae such as recursion. The administrator may elect to use any of these allocation administration rule for some all or none of the allocation rounds.

The Selection and Notification Module SAN implements the actual ticket allocation process which may also be referred to as a ticket draft process. The module is designed to use the group rules and member preferences and requirements to allocate tickets sets equitably to members . A ticket set may include as few as one ticket. Where the group offers only one ticket set per event the event is equivalent to the ticket set. The prepicker is a feature unique to the system of the present invention that is not possible using a conventional off line manual ticket allocation process. Since many groups will include a large number of ticket sets a system function provides automatic ranking of ticket sets for a group member instead of requiring the member to assign a numerical rank to each ticket set. The prepicker allows members to rank various event preference or requirement criteria so the system can automatically assign ranks to the events. Criteria may be based on any of the ticket information captured from the group s administrator or the member . Criteria include ranking game opponents i.e. which opponents does the member wish to see play the home team . Members can also set a criteria preference or requirement concerning day versus night events or weekday versus weekend events. Members can also indicate criteria based on the time date month or season of the event s occurrence for which they prefer or require tickets. For each of the criteria the member may also indicate its preference as high medium or low or ignore or on a numerical or alphabetical scale. This will instruct the system in assigning relative ranks. Criteria may represent fields in the system s database and may be selectable by members using check boxes or drop down menus in the GUI provided by the system . The system s assignment of relative rankings may utilize looping through all of the events to identify those that satisfy highly rated criteria. For example if the member has indicated only one high preference criteria that is the competing sports team attribute and has indicated only one preferred competitor the Phillies the SAN module would loop through all events and place all games against the Phillies at the top of the member s initial rankings. If more than one preference criteria are indicated the SAN module may loop through events identify all events that satisfy high preference criteria all events that satisfy medium preference criteria and all those that satisfy low preference criteria. The SAN module will then provide initial rankings that place the events that satisfy the high preference criteria at the top of the list followed by medium preference events followed by low preference events followed by an unranked listing of remaining events. Accordingly the SAN module uses conditional logic to determine to which event attributes the member has assigned a preference criteria and uses an algorithm to iteratively compare the preference criteria to the attributes of each event e.g. competitor day game evening game weekend weekday game etc and assign initial rankings.

The next step in the ranking process is for the member to rank any individual events that they wish to have allocated by the system . The system permits a member to assign a rank to an individual event or relative ranks to a series of events. The latter is especially helpful in baseball where a specific opponent may be in town for a three game series. Rather than just selecting an individual game a member can assign the same rank to all games in the series so that if any one of the games is available to the member during a round of the allocation process it will be allocated to the member . A rank assigned to an event in this process may receive priority over a rank assigned to an event by the prepicker or vice versa. A member can rank as many or as few events as they like.

The SAN module also has a function allows a member to rank a specific events in numeric order at a series level. A series ranking pertains to a set of events that are grouped together as a series. For instance if the Orioles are playing a three game series with the Phillies from 1 1 1 5 the member may rank all of these events as a 1 as an alternative to the SAN module only being capable of permitting the member to rank one of the games as first pick. If any of these series games are available to the member during ticket allocation the result will be that the member receives tickets for just one of those games subsequent allocations for the member will attempt to allocate ticket for events second and lower.

An additional step in the events ranking process is to allow the member to review the consolidated event ranks. This will show the rank assigned to all events based on the member s individual event ranking the prepicker s determination and any other requirements or rules set by the administrator or member . The member may elect to change ranks at this time and save the information to the database of the system of the present invention. The member can change any event rankings up until the draft executes. The member may be prohibited from changing event rankings that are required to satisfy administrator rules.

The allocation of events by the SAN module is based upon the ranks assigned to each event and the members relative positions in each allocation round. Once a member s turn comes in an allocation round the SAN module will examine the member s event ranks and allocate to the member the highest ranked event still available to the group members. The allocation process is complete when all events are allocated to members . The administrator may indicate a group rule that requires the SAN module to randomly assign a relative allocation position to each member for the first round. This first round allocation position will indicate the order in which each member s turn comes for ticket allocation in the first round. To determine the order in which members are allocated tickets in subsequent rounds the SAN module will apply the group s allocation administration rule e.g. sequential progression regression random etc. to the first round relative allocation positions of the members . Alternatively once membership building is complete the administrator may indicate to the SAN module the first round relative allocation positions of some or all group members . This may be useful for an administrator that is also a member of the group and wishes notwithstanding the group s allocation administration rule to have the first pick during the first or subsequent rounds or wishes to give particular members such as invited members earlier draft priority positions than the positions of other members during the first or subsequent rounds. Once the draft is complete the SAN module will generate a message or display to each member informing them of their allocated events. At this time the system may also calculate ticket cost charges owed by each member and issue an invoice or charge their credit card or bank account accordingly. The results of the draft will also be saved to the group page and will be accessible by group members .

The SAN module also allows a member or administrator to set a requirement of day or time spacing between allocated events thereby prohibiting the automated ticket allocation from assigning tickets to events that occur within the set number of days or clock time. This allocation requirement avoids allocation of excessive events during a particular time frame. A simple lookup algorithm may be used to lookup the events previously allocated to the member and their dates or times and compare such information against the date or time of the proposed event that is proposed for allocation to the member according to the allocation process. If the spacing requirement is satisfied the proposed event will be allocated to the member . Otherwise the allocation process will move through the rankings to propose another event including with consideration of the spacing requirement. If no available events satisfy the spacing requirement the SAN module will allocate an event based on the aforementioned preference criteria and member rankings.

Once maximum or minimum membership thresholds are satisfied or an administrator defined date and time is reached the SAN module will begin the ticket allocation process either automatically as described above based on rankings or in a manual fashion whereby each member must access the system once their turn comes up in an allocation round and interact with the system s GUI in order to view and select events from a listing of available events. The same rules that govern automatic allocation be applied to a manual allocation however the individual members will not need to set event preferences or requirements or indicate rankings. The system may provide instant notification via a message over telecommunications network to the member of when their turn comes up in an allocation round such as via GUI display email IM or pager. Once the member select an event the next member in the allocation will similarly be notified view available event and select an allocation. This process will continue until all events are allocated. The administrator may set a rule whereby the group s manual allocation requires all members to remain logged on the system at the same time in order to make event selections until all events are allocated and there are no further allocation rounds.

The system may conduct event allocations based on each group member being allocated only a share of tickets. For example if a group has ten members and the total number of events is 80 the system may disallow any member from participating in allocation round if the member has been allocated its share eight events while others that have not received their full share may continue to participate in allocation rounds. This manner of conducting an allocation may be used in order to permit any member to pass on a ticket allocation in a particular allocation round and thereby delay such ticket allocation until a later round. This feature may be useful in manual allocations where a member may find it inconvenient to select a ticket allocation during a particular allocation round and passes on selection in order to permit the allocation process to continue for the other group members . The only exception to shares being equivalent in number of events is that if the total number of group events divided by the number of users has a remainder then it is possible for some members to receive one additional event than other members . For example if there are 81 group events and ten members it is possible for one member to receive nine events while other members receive eight.

Once all tickets are distributed and the draft is complete the event calendar may be updated to indicate to which members events were allocated. This calendar may be viewable to all group members .

The Commerce and Payment CAP module is an ecommerce system that may be a function of the system and allows the administrator to receive payment from group members or users that are group member applicants for events via a credit card or other payment interface. Such payment may be required prior to acceptance as a group member or entering an allocation process. For nonexistent groups that the system proposes for creation based on an analysis of system users attributes requirements and preferences the CAP module may be used to accept payment from joining members so that a group administrator member or third party may purchase tickets on behalf of the group. The CAP module may be used to exchange payments that are part of any ticket trades using the event trading module of the system .

Another unique feature of the system is event trading. The advantages of an online system make trading tickets more efficient amongst system users . A difficulty in trading outside of the inventive system is finding other individuals willing to trade. However with the community of users created by the system of the present invention there is a significantly larger audience with whom to trade events. Trading via the system may occur with members belonging to other groups or possessing tickets to other events rather than just occurring within a member s specific group or package of events.

Another module of the inventive system provides system users with the ability to trade individual events with other users . Trading agents may be defined by users and will automatically execute periodically to find matches for other trading agents that have been defined by other users . If a trading agent is matched up with another trading agent the system will message information about the match to both trading agent users . The users can communicate with one another using the system s messaging module to discuss terms of their trade agreement. Trading agents are defined by event attributes duration of trade agent existence and whether the trade agent represents a user s search for tickets to an event or willingness to trade event tickets in the user s possession for specified consideration. Trading agents post to a general trade posting GUI that all users have access to. Any user act upon a trading agent that is posted by communicating with the user that established the trading agent using the messaging module of the system .

Another module of the inventive system provides system users with the ability to define criteria for searching open ticket groups and to save such search criteria as a search agent. Search agent criteria are defined in terms of event and group attributes preferences and requirements. Search agents will automatically execute periodically to find open groups that are compatible with the user s search criteria. If a search agent is matched up with an open group the system may message the user that created the search agent that there is an open group available. The user of the search agent can communicate to the group administrator and request to join the group using the system s messaging module. Open groups are posted to a general open group listing. Any user can search for an open group using this listing and act upon an open group by submitting a request to join the group. Open groups do not include any group that does not permit acceptance unsolicited user requests to join the group.

The system may include a commerce module that enables the exchange of tickets and money between users . A group administrator may require that prior to the allocation process group members are charged an amount set by the administrator . This amount may be based on an estimated or actual minimum ticket cost for each group member and may be calculated by the commerce module. The administrator may create a group rule in the ACE module that requires payment of the charge as a condition for users to join as members of the group. Additional charges may be assessed to members after the allocation is complete and final actual ticket costs are calculated by the system . Once the allocation is completed the system enables the administrator to view or print out a report that lists which members receive which tickets. The commerce module may also permit the administrator to print out shipping bill for each member . The tracking number from the shipping bill will be logged into the system . This allows the system to track when tickets have been received by the member .

One embodiment of the system utilizes object oriented techniques in its overall architecture. The system s application and administration portal architecture may consist of the following core areas Presentation layer Framework Portlets Services Interfaces and Data layer. The presentation layer is developed in Hypertext Markup Language HTML . The system utilizes a combination of HTML graphics and core active server page objects to render the appropriate graphics to the end users. The Dot Net framework permits easy segmentation between the presentation layer and the data interface layer. This allows HTML developers to focus on HTML without having to understand the complexities of the underlying code. The system may comprise portlets that are reusable Web components that display relevant information to portal users. For example a My Groups portlet may show a user to view the event groups that the user belongs to. The portlets are reusable self contained applications that can be plugged into any page supporting its standards. Each portlet is a self contained object developed to be reusable in throughout the overall framework. Since each portlet is an encapsulated object it can be reused on any page. This reduces overall maintenance and enables the coding process by standardization thereby increasing productivity and minimizing human resource needs.

The application of the system may provide the following services that expose themselves as user interfaces Search Trade Agent Mail Event Logging Payflow Pro and Shipping. The search and trade agent matching service utilizes the user defined search agent or trade agent to automate the searching matching of a user s preferences attributes and requirements against those of the open groups and open trades that may be posted on the web GUI of the system . When a match is found the appropriate users are notified via the Mail Service that a match has occurred. Additionally each agent has a defined frequency so that the users can be alerted at their own defined discretion daily every three days weekly . The mail service interfaces with the agent service and directly interfaces with the system application to provide messaging services to end users . The service utilizes mail templates that define the format style and type of information to be retrieved from the database for automated system messaging. Additionally the mail service queues and processes all user mail and routes the mail to the appropriate individuals using the appropriate format HTML vs Text . The mail service utilizes SMTP email for external outbound email and simple text for internal database driven mail.

The system s commerce module utilizes Payflow Pro a PayPal payment processing service via an Application Programming Interface API . Payflow Pro is a scalable completely customizable payment processing solution and allows the system managers direct control over the functionality look and feel of the commerce module.

The system may include a shipping module which may use an API provided by a courier service to integrate with the courier s overnight and ground delivery services into the system s online environment. This shipping API integration allows system managers to customize a shipping solution that seamlessly integrates shipping tracking and rate estimation into the inventive system. By integrating to the courier s application interface system managers are able to offer a full ticket guarantee on all tickets tracked by the system by importing tracking numbers into an order management system module. From ticket allocation to final ticket fulfillment the system managers may remain aware of the status of ticket shipments by using the tracking integration provided by the courier service. This permits system managers to identify and remediate disputes based on failure to deliver tickets to group members in accordance with the results of the ticket allocation process and other group rules.

The data layer stores all information for all of the system applications. The data layer encapsulates all functions for optimal storage and provides all functions to search insert update delete all data for every function within the applications.

One embodiment of the system is installed on a dual processor 2 Ghz Opteron Hewlett Packard server with 2 GB of Random Access Memory RAM . The server is outfitted with three 120 GB drives using a Redundant Array of Independent Disks configuration RAID 5 implementation. This configuration utilizes block interleaved distributed parity which provides data and error striping at the byte level. The server is acting as a web server and database server. Two web application servers may be used for load balancing. To accommodate the growing number of users the system infrastructure can easily expand and adapt by adding web servers based on a factor of 1 web server per 200 000 users. The load on each web server will be balanced by a load balancer in an overall cluster and communicate to a redundant database server architecture using replication services. A storage array may be used in the database server for all database and file storage. The system may use Microsoft SQL Server 2005 as a relational database engine to support its data storage needs. The data layer is highly scalable through advancements in table partitioning snapshot isolation and 64 bit support. The system software application may run the Windows 2003 operating system on an application server of the system . The system may utilize distributed transaction services which allow the system to automatically extract transform and load a variety of data feeds from data sources or external entities into the application like event schedules and rss feeds. All credit card and password information in the system is encrypted using a 128 bit Private Key encryption utilizing the Data Encryption Standard DES . One embodiment of the system was developed in Microsoft s ASP.NET version 2.0 SQL Server 2000 Transact SQL and Javascript. The applications utilize the Internet Information Server version 6.0. All secure communications by the system with regard to payment processing and registration utilizes a 128 bit Secure Sockets Layer SSL . SSL encryption helps ensure that information is kept private between the system web server and the user s web browser. The system may employ the use of a firewall to prevent network attacks and prevent denial of service issues. The firewall also performs VPN duties so development personnel and management can appropriately administer and manage the servers . All system applications may use role based security to access specific and appropriate functions. The system may be set up such that only one account allows the web applications to interface with the operating system and the database server . This account is a user level account with minimal privileges. All other administrative accounts in the system require authentication with complex password strength.

