---

title: Universal mobile print agent
abstract: Methods and apparatus for enabling output from a mobile device are described herein. A mobile device having an image capture device can selectively generate a hard copy output of a captured image by interfacing with an output device. The mobile device can selectively interface with the output device directly or indirectly via one or more intermediate devices and/or systems. The mobile device can interface directly with an output device using a wired or wireless connection, and can selectively operate as a host or client. The mobile device can selectively couple the stored image to a remote output device via a wireless connection. The mobile device can select the remote output device from a predetermined list of devices, or can be supplied a dynamic list of remote output devices. The dynamic list of output devices can be updated, for example, based on a location of the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08571602&OS=08571602&RS=08571602
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08571602
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070608
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 812 247 filed Jun. 9 2006 entitled UNIVERSAL MOBILE PICTURE PRINTING METHOD SYSTEM AND APPARATUS and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 838 549 filed Aug. 17 2006 entitled UNIVERSAL MOBILE PICTURE PRINTING METHOD SYSTEM AND APPARATUS both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Some mobile devices such as cellular phones may include an image capture device such as a camera. A user of the mobile device can conveniently capture and store images using the image capture device. Typically a stored image can be viewed using a display on the mobile device. The mobile device typically allows selected images to be retrieved from memory and transmitted to a remote location such as another mobile device or a networked computer.

However the typical mobile device provides only limited opportunities and processes for generating a hard copy of a stored image. Most mobile devices lack any ability to autonomously generate a hard copy output mainly due to the limited physical size of the mobile device. Therefore a mobile device needs to interface with an output device such as a printer in order to produce a hard copy output of a stored image.

Mobile devices are typically required to interface with the output device through some intermediate device such as a computer in order to control the output device. The actual interface with the output device is controlled by the computer and not the mobile device. Therefore in order to produce a hard copy output of a stored image the mobile device communicates the stored image to the computer and the user controls the computer to produce the hard copy output from the output device.

The presently available process for producing a hard copy output of a stored image is tedious and not convenient for the user of the mobile device. Additionally the output process is inflexible and requires the user to have access to a computer coupled to an output device.

Methods and apparatus for enabling output from a mobile device are described herein. A mobile device having an image capture device can selectively generate a hard copy output of a captured image by interfacing with an output device. The mobile device can selectively interface with the output device directly or indirectly via one or more intermediate devices and or systems. The mobile device can interface directly with an output device using a wired or wireless connection and can selectively operate as a host or client. The mobile device can selectively couple the stored image to a remote output device via a wireless connection. The mobile device can select the remote output device from a predetermined list of devices or can be supplied a dynamic list of remote output devices. The dynamic list of output devices can be updated for example based on a location of the mobile device.

Aspects of the invention include a method of providing print output for a mobile device. The method includes initializing a print output from the mobile device determining whether a selected output device is local or remote determining whether a connection to the output device is established as wired or wireless and communicating at least one image stored within the mobile device to the selected output device via the connection.

Aspects of the invention include a method of providing print output for a mobile device. The method includes receiving a selection of an output device for printing an image stored within the mobile device enabling a connection to a selected output device via one of a wireless transceiver within the mobile device or a wired output port on the mobile device based on an identity of the selected output device and communicating the image to the selected output device by one of the wireless transceiver or the wired output port.

Aspects of the invention include an apparatus configured to provide mobile print output. The apparatus includes an image capture device a wireless transceiver a communication processing module coupled to a wired communication port an Universal Print Agent UPA configured to selectively communicate an image captured by the image capture device to an output device using one of the wireless transceiver or the wired communication port based on an identity of the output device.

Aspects of the invention include an apparatus configured to provide mobile print output. The apparatus includes a machine readable memory storing a set of processor executable instructions when executed by the processor configured to perform a method that includes receiving a command to initialize a print output from a mobile device determining whether a selected output device is local or remote determining whether a connection to the output device is established as wired or wireless and communicating at least one image stored within the mobile device to the selected output device via the connection.

Aspects of the invention include an apparatus configured to provide mobile print output. The apparatus includes means for receiving a command to initialize a print output from a mobile device means for determining whether a selected output device is local or remote means for determining whether a connection to the output device is established as wired or wireless and means for communicating at least one image stored within the mobile device to the selected output device via the connection.

Users of mobile devices with built in cameras may wish to print photographs and particularly high quality pictures.

A method system and apparatus may enable mobile picture printing across various chipset platforms. The method and system may tie together a modem connectivity and location capabilities in an apparatus to enable a mobile printing service which can be used at various locations in various ways and at various times. The apparatus such as a mobile device may enable various mobile printing use cases.

The method system and apparatus may provide a unified and coordinated interface that manages information and data used to make mobile picture printing relatively convenient and easy to use. The interface may work with printing application software.

A mobile device such as a cellular telephone can include an image capture device. The mobile phone can capture and store one or more images. The mobile device can output one or more stored images to a display for transient viewing and can output one or more stored images to an output device such as a printer where the image can be converted to a hard copy output.

Although the mobile device is described in terms of a wireless telephone the mobile device is not limited to a telephone and is not limited to communicating over a wireless telephone system. Additionally the output is described in terms of printing a picture stored in the mobile device but output is not limited to pictures but may be any type of information stored in the mobile device including text data configuration information images as well as multimedia files.

The mobile device can be configured to output a stored image to either a local output device or a remote output device. A local output device can be considered an output device which communicates directly with the mobile device without the need to communicate using an intermediate device. Additionally the mobile device connects to the output device via a wired link or a wireless link. Thus the mobile device supports output over each of generally four connection categories. The four connection categories include remote wired connection remote wireless connection local wired connection and local wireless connection. Additionally the mobile device may support multiple output options under each connection category.

The mobile device can include a Universal Print Agent UPA that operates to manage information and data required for all possible output scenarios. The mobile device may also integrate a mobile print application on top of the UPA for a seamless easy to use and trusted printing experience. Tight coordination of these two pieces may create an end to end system that is complete convenient and easy to use.

The dynamic output environment of depicts at least one example from each of the various connection categories. The mobile device can be configured to run a mobile print application interfacing with a Universal Print Agent UPA to select one of the output paths over which a selected image is communicated for output.

The mobile device can be configured to select a local output device via a wired or wireless connection. For example the mobile device can include a wireless transceiver configured to communicate over a Local Area Network LAN or Personal Area Network PAN . The wireless transceiver can be for example an IEEE 802.11 enabled transceiver or a Bluetooth enabled transceiver.

The mobile device can utilize the wireless transceiver to communicate directly with a wireless enabled printer . The mobile device can be configured to operate either as a host device or a client device depending on the capabilities of the wireless enabled printer . The mobile device can connect with the wireless enabled printer and exchange a selected image for output. As an example the mobile device can connect the to wireless enabled printer using an IEEE 802.11 ad hoc connection in order to communicate images to the wireless enabled printer for output.

The mobile device can also connect to local printers via a wired connection. The mobile device can include one or more wired ports to interface a wired connection to a printer. For example the mobile device can include distinct ports that are configured to support Universal Serial Bus USB connections as either a host device or a client peripheral device.

In one embodiment the mobile device can include one or more USB Standard A or mini A receptacles and the mobile device can operate as a host device to a USB wired printer operating as a client or peripheral device. The wired printer can support for example the Universal Plug and Play UPnP standard. The mobile device can communicate over the wired connection with the wired printer to retrieve any driver information needed to support outputting a desired image or file to the wired printer

In another embodiment the mobile device can include one or more USB Standard B or mini B receptacles and the mobile device can operate as a client or peripheral device to a wired USB printer operating as a host device. As one example the wired USB printer can support the PictBridge standard. The wired USB printer operates as a host device to enable selection and printing of one or more images stored on the mobile device .

The mobile device can also connect to a local computer over a wired connection. The mobile device can for example connect to a local computer via a USB connection and the mobile device can operate as a host or peripheral. In typical situations the mobile device is configured to operate as a peripheral device but is not limited to such a configuration.

A user controlling the local computer operating as a host device can select one or more captured images from the mobile device for retrieval and subsequent communication to an output device. The local computer can be for example coupled to a network but may also couple images to a local printer not shown . The manner and process of interfacing a computer with a printer is well known and once selected images are transferred to the local computer the local computer may control the manner in which the images are output.

The mobile device can be for example a cellular telephone that is configured to support communications via a wireless communication system . The communication system may be designed to support one or more wireless communication technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA time division multiple access TDMA or orthogonal frequency divisional multiplexing OFDM or another suitable wireless technique. The above wireless communication technologies may be delivered according to any of a variety of radio access technologies. For example CDMA may be delivered according to cdma2000 or wideband CDMA WCDMA standards. TDMA may be delivered according to the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM standard. The Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS standard permits GSM or WCDMA operation. For VT applications system may be designed to support high data rate HDR technologies such as cdma2000 1x EV DO Release 0 Revision A or subsequent EV DO releases.

The communication system can be configured to connect the mobile device to one or more networks . The networks can include a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN as well as a packet switched network such as the Internet. Although depicts a single network image it is understood that the network may include multiple networks and the multiple networks may be interconnected or distinct. Although the communication system is depicted as an antenna in the communication system includes Base Station Controllers Mobile Station Controllers and network Gateways needed to interface the communication system to the networks .

The mobile device can utilize the communication system to connect to a remote printer e.g. . The mobile device can access a remote printer directly or may access a remote printer indirectly. For example the mobile device may have available or may have access to a listing or catalog of available printers coupled to the communication system . A user can navigate to a desired remote printer and send a desired image to the remote printer via the communication system. In one example the mobile device can access a network via the communication system and can navigate to a desired remote computer . The mobile device can communicate one or more images via the communication system to the computer for output via an associated printer

Alternatively the mobile device may access remote printers indirectly via a service that is accessible in association with or supported by the communication system . For example the mobile device may access a print service offered by a wireless carrier associated with the communication system . The mobile device can communicate one or more selected images to the service provider and the service provider can generate the hard copy outputs for delivery or pickup. As an example the mobile device can communicate one or more images via the communication system to a service provider and the service provider may receive or otherwise retrieve the images using an associated computer . The service provider controls the computer and associated printer to produce the requested hard copy output.

The mobile device may also include the capability to communicate with a network via a wireless access point . The wireless access point may support a communication standard that is distinct from the wireless standard supported by the communication system . As an example the mobile device can include a wireless transceiver configured to support communications with an IEEE 802.11 access point . The mobile device can communicate via the access point to generate hard copy output from a remote printer in much the same manner as is available using the wireless communication system .

The mobile device may also include position location capabilities. The position location capabilities may be local to the mobile device or may operate in conjunction with supporting systems such as the wireless communication system . As an example the mobile device can implement a standalone GPS receiver that is able to receive ranging signals from a source within a position location system such as a GPS satellite vehicle . The mobile device can independently determine its position using the ranging signals.

In another embodiment the mobile device can determine its position in association with the communication system . For example the mobile device may support position location as provided by a cellular communication system. In such an embodiment the mobile device may receive ranging signals from multiple sources such as GPS satellite vehicles as well as ground stations from the communication system. The mobile device can communicate information or data associated with the ranging signals to the communication system . The communication system can implement a Position Determination Entity PDE to determine the position of the mobile device based on the information or data received from the mobile device .

The mobile device can utilize its position to dynamically obtain or update a list of nearby service providers. As an example a wireless communication system that is capable of determining the position of the mobile station can offer location based services to the mobile station when the mobile station initiates remote printing. The mobile station can request a list or catalog of service providers from the wireless communication system and the list can be dynamically generated by the wireless communication system based on the position of the mobile device .

The user of the mobile device can then examine the list of service providers to determine the type of service offered. For example some service providers may offer printers and the user may travel to the service provider to generate local output at the printer. Other service providers may for example permit downloading and remote printing of selected images and the images may be delivered to a location that can be selected by the mobile device user based on the mobile device location.

The mobile device integrates the UPA to provide multiple print options to the user of the mobile device . This enables the user of the mobile device to have many options for hard copy output even in situations where some options are not available.

The mobile device may include a sensor an image processing unit a transceiver wireless network transceiver position location module print controller inputs and a display and or output . The output may include or be coupled to one or more ports .

The sensor may be a camera or video camera sensor adapted to capture images or video sequences. The sensor may include color filter arrays CFAs arranged on a surface of individual sensors. For example the sensor can be a charge coupled device CMOS camera and the like or some other module for capturing images.

The image processing unit may include a processor other hardware and a storage unit . The storage unit may store images or video sequences before and after processing. The storage unit may include volatile storage and non volatile storage . The storage unit may comprise any type of data storage means such as dynamic random access memory DRAM FLASH memory NOR or NAND gate memory or any other data storage technology.

The image processing unit may process images and or video sequences. The image processing unit may comprise a chip set for a mobile radiotelephone which may include hardware software firmware and or one or more microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or various combinations thereof.

The image processing unit may include a local memory coupled to a front end image video processing unit and an image video coding unit. The coding unit may comprise an encoder decoder CODEC for encoding or compressing and decoding or decompressing digital video data. The local memory may comprise a smaller and faster memory space relative to the storage unit or may include memory from the storage unit . For example the local memory may comprise synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM that is distinct from the storage unit . The local memory may comprise on chip memory integrated with the other components of the processing unit to provide fast access to data during a processor intensive coding process.

The image processing unit may perform one or more image processing techniques on frames of a video sequence to improve image quality and thereby improve the quality of a video sequence. For example the image processing unit may perform techniques such as de mosaicing lens rolloff correction scaling color correction color conversion and spatial filtering. The image processing unit may also perform other techniques.

The transceiver may receive and or transmit coded images or video sequences to another device. The transceiver may use a wireless communication standard such as code division multiple access CDMA . Examples of CDMA standards include CDMA 1xEV DO WCDMA etc.

The wireless network transceiver can be configured to communicate with a packet network such as a Local Area Network. The wireless network transceiver can be configured for example to support a communication standard distinct from the communication standard supported by the transceiver . For example the wireless network transceiver can be configured to support an IEEE 802.11 communication standard. In another embodiment the wireless network transceiver can be configured to connect the mobile device to a Personal Area Network PAN . As an example the wireless network transceiver can be configured to support the Bluetooth communication standard. Although the embodiment of illustrates a single wireless network transceiver the mobile device can implement multiple wireless network transceivers or a reconfigurable wireless network transceiver where multiple communication standards are supported.

The wireless network transceiver can be configured to couple the mobile device to an available wireless LAN or PAN. Additionally or alternatively the wireless network transceiver can be configured to couple the mobile device to a wireless enabled device such as a wireless enabled printer.

The position location module operates independently of or in conjunction with the transceiver to generate position data or position assistance data. For example the position location module may be a GPS receiver that is able to determine the location of the mobile device . Alternatively the position location module may be an assisted GPS receiver that operates in conjunction with the transceiver to provide pseudo range information to a network position determination entity. The network position determination entity can communicate the position to the mobile device or use the position information for a location based service.

The print controller can manage the various print options inputs and outputs that are part of the printing process. The print controller can receive one or more inputs from the devices that make up the inputs to initiate the print process. Additionally the print controller can receive via the inputs user selections and controls.

The print controller can also provide one or more outputs via the display and or output . For example the print controller may retrieve images from the image processing unit for display in order to prompt the user for an image selection. The print controller can also control the one or more signals and images directed to the one or more output ports when wired connections are used.

The print controller may also manage the generation and processing of signals according to the selected communication protocol. For example the print controller may manage the host controls or the peripheral operation when connected as a USB device. Similarly the print controller may control the formatting of image files for transmission to selected output devices.

In addition to or instead of the elements shown in other elements may be included in mobile device . The architecture illustrated in is merely an example. The techniques described herein may be implemented with a variety of other architectures.

The mobile device may have a dedicated memory for storing instructions and data as well as dedicated hardware software firmware or combinations thereof. If implemented in software the techniques may be embodied as instructions on a computer readable medium such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM non volatile random access memory NVRAM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM FLASH memory or the like. The instructions when executed by one or more processors cause one or more processors to perform certain aspects of the functionality described in this disclosure.

The mobile printing architecture leverages the existing hardware and software existing in many mobile devices. The existing hardware and software is augmented with a unified and coordinated Universal Print Agent UPA that manages the information and data required in the various output scenarios.

The mobile print architecture can be built on top of existing mobile device hardware by interfacing with available program interfaces. As one example the UPA can be configured to interface with existing cellular telephone hardware via an existing interface such as the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW .

The embodiment of illustrates a mobile printing architecture built on the foundation of the mobile station modem hardware that may be part of a baseband processing portion of a cellular telephone. However the architecture is merely illustrative of one possible implementation.

The mobile printing architecture is built on the hardware foundation of a mobile station modem such as would be included in a typical cellular telephone. The mobile station modem can be configured to provide the processing of the baseband data and information including information captured or otherwise received locally as well as information received by the mobile device and converted to baseband.

One or more mobile station processing modules can be built in conjunction or over the mobile station modem . Each of the mobile station processing modules illustrated in are shown as software modules operating over the mobile station modem . However the mobile station processing modules may be implemented as hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. Additionally the type and number of processing modules illustrated in is illustrative of a typical implementation and is not a limitation on the mobile print architecture .

The mobile station processing modules can include a file system module that is configured to manage and organize the various files including image files that can be stored in the mobile device. The UPA can for example access the files via the file system module in order to permit a user to navigate and select one or more desired images for communication to an output device.

An image processing library can include one or more memory locations configured to store the captured images within the mobile device. The file system module tracks the various images stored in the image processing library .

A camera services module operates to interface via the mobile station modem to one or more sensors cameras or image capture devices. The camera services module can be configured to provide the encoding or decoding of captured images to convert the images to desired image file configurations. For example the camera services module can be configured to encode an image captured by a camera to a particular encoded file format such as a JPEG encoded file format.

A modem over the air OTA processing module can be configured to process incoming and outgoing data from and to the format required by the mobile station modem . The modem OTA processing module is utilized when information is exchanged via the mobile station modem . The UPA can initialize and utilize the modem OTA processing module when the mobile device transceiver is used to communicate information to an output device via the communication system such as a cellular telephone system.

The GPS A GPS information module is representative of a position location module that can be used to initiate or otherwise determine a location of the mobile device when location based services are used. The UPA can initiate position location at the request of location based services running on top of or in conjunction with the UPA .

A Bluetooth module can be included when the mobile device supports communication using a Bluetooth communication standard. The UPA can configure the Bluetooth module to push an image to an output device via the appropriate transceiver hardware when a wireless connection to local output device is used as the connection type.

A USB device host module can be utilized when the mobile device operates as a host USB device. The USB device host module can interface with the Universal Plug and Play UPnP module when the mobile device interfaces and operates as a host to UPnP devices as output devices.

Similarly a USB peripheral module can operate with a PictBridge module to support operating the mobile device as a USB peripheral and in particular operating the mobile device as a PictBridge enabled USB peripheral. In the PictBridge configuration the output device such as a PictBridge enabled printer can operate as a host to control one or more interfaces on the mobile device or a printer control that permits access selection and output of a desired image stored within the mobile device.

The UPnP module has been described as interfacing with the USB host module but is not limited to providing UPnP interface to wired connections. The UPnP module may also interface with one or more wireless modules in order to provide the UPnP functionality over a wireless link.

For example the UPnP module may interface with a WiFi module such as an IEEE 802.11 compliant interface module to permit UPnP configuration and subsequent output to occur over a wireless interface. The UPnP module can control the UPnP interfacing and configuration and can operate to convert a selected image to the proper format as defined by the active UPnP configuration.

The WiFi module is used to provide the interface to WiFi transceiver hardware. Other modules can be used to provide the interfaces to other wireless hardware. For example a Near Field Communication Ultra Wide Band module can be used where near filed or ultra wide band communications is used as a wireless link to a local device or network gateway.

The Universal Print Agent UPA runs on top of the various processing modules to manage and conduct the print operation. The UPA interfaces with the various processing modules via its corresponding Application Program Interface API . For example an OTA API operates to provide a standard interface between the UPA and the modem OTA module . Similarly a GPS API module Bluetooth API module USB host API module and other API modules provide the interface between the UPA and a corresponding processing module that can be accessed by the UPA .

A mobile print API module runs on top of the UPA to provide a single API to an application that may run on top of the UPA . In some instances the mobile print API module may be considered as part of the UPA .

A print application such as a third party print application may run on top of the UPA and interface via the mobile print API module . The mobile print API module permits print applications to be written by third party software developers. Such applications may be pre installed on the mobile device or may be downloaded and installed on the mobile device by the end user. For example a particular print application for a mobile device may be written by a third party printer manufacturer that also supplies networked printing services. Such an application may greatly facilitate selection and use of output devices and services provided by the third party author.

The print application operates to simplify the navigation selection and communication with output devices. The print application operates to provide the user with a seamless easy to use and trusted printing experience when supplied by a major print manufacturer or service provider.

The architecture includes a mobile station modem interfacing with various processing modules. The processing modules include a modem OTA module a GPS information module that otherwise operates a position location module a Bluetooth module a USB host module a USB peripheral module interfacing with a PictBridge module and a WiFi module interfacing to a UPnP module .

Unlike the architecture illustrated in the mobile print architecture of implements the UPA within the structure of the mobile device and not via an application programming interface. Thus the UPA is configured to interface directly to each of the processing modules e.g. and need not interface through an API.

The elimination of the API layer from the mobile print architecture of Figure slightly simplifies the UPA and simplifies the interface between the UPA and the processing modules. This can enable the UPA to more efficiently access and operate each of the processing modules. A mobile print API operates to provide an application program interface between the UPA and a print application . The mobile print API can be configured to provide the same API to the print application as provided in the architecture of such that a print application does not need to know which architecture is implemented by the mobile device. Alternatively the mobile print API can be configured to provide a different API than that provided in the architecture of .

The print application may be the same as the print application of the architecture of or may be a print application optimized for the mobile print architecture of . The print application operates to provide the user interface to the print options.

The method begins at block when a user launches the print application running on the mobile device. The mobile device proceeds to block and retrieves images from memory for display to the user. For example the print application can be configured to control the UPA to access a file system module that enables access of an image processing library. The print application can permit the user to select one or more images for output. Alternatively the process of displaying and selecting an image may be omitted or performed later in the method . The method may instead proceed to determine an output device once the print application is launched. The process of selecting an image to output may be performed after connecting to the desired output device.

As described earlier the mobile device supports multiple output connection categories. The mobile device proceeds to decision block and determines if a remote output is desired. If not the alternative option of outputting to a local output device is selected.

The mobile device proceeds to decision block to determine if the desired output connection is a wired connection. The mobile device can determine this via the print application based on the user s output device selection.

If a wired connection is not sought the mobile device proceeds to block and determines the proper wireless port used to support the wireless output device. The mobile device can for example initiate a wireless connection using one of multiple wireless transceivers where each wireless transceiver supports a subset of all wireless connections.

If a wired output device is selected the mobile device proceeds to decision block to determine if the mobile device is to operate as a host or client peripheral device over the wired connection. For example the user can select a wired USB connection and the mobile device can be configured as either a host or a peripheral in the USB connection.

The mobile device proceeds from decision block to block if the mobile device is to be configured as a client or peripheral device. One example of a situation in which the mobile device operates as a peripheral device is where a USB connection to a PictBridge enabled printer is established as the output connection. The PictBridge printer operates as a host device controlling the mobile device as a peripheral.

If at decision block the mobile device determines that it is to be configured as a host device the mobile device proceeds to block and configures the mobile device as a host device. As an example the mobile device can be coupled over a USB connection to a UPnP printer and the mobile device can operate as a host device to control the print process.

After configuring the mobile device as either a client device or a host device the mobile device proceeds from either block or block to block to communicate the selected image to the desired wired output device.

If at decision block the mobile device determines that remote output is desired the mobile device proceeds to decision block and determines if a Location Based Service LBS output application is desired. The mobile device can determine that an LBS output is selected in the print application or can determine based on the desired output selection that LBS output devices are desired.

If LBS output devices are not desired the mobile device proceeds to block and retrieves the predetermined remote output devices and services for example from a list stored in memory or from a database in a connected network device. The mobile device then proceeds to block where the options are presented to the user.

If at decision block the mobile device determines that LBS output is desired the mobile device proceeds to block and retrieves or otherwise initiates position determination. For example the mobile device can initiate GPS or A GPS position location. The operation of the print application determines if the position fix needs to be known at the mobile device or if a network position determination is sufficient to support the LBS.

The mobile device proceeds to block and determines the LBS output devices that are available. For example the mobile device can initiate a network based position determination and once the mobile device position is determined by a PDE on the network can query a database at a network for output devices or services that are within a predetermined proximity of the mobile device location.

The mobile device proceeds to block and presents the output device and service options to the user for example via the print application. The mobile device can for example present only non LBS output devices and services when LBS is not utilized. Similarly if LBS is utilized the mobile device can present only LBS output devices and services or can present available LBS output devices and services in combination with non LBS output devices and services.

The mobile device can accept a user output device or service selection based on the presented options and proceeds to block to communicate the selected images to the selected output device. The mobile device can for example automatically configure the appropriate hardware such as cellular telephone link or WiFi link based on the selected output device.

The method begins at block where the mobile device or UPA initiates position determination. The UPA can for example initiate position determination using a GPS A GPS module in the mobile device. The mobile device position can be determined at the mobile device or at a network PDE.

The mobile device proceeds to block and determines the criteria or parameters for filtering potential LBS output devices. For example the mobile device can accept user input regarding a maximum desired distance to output devices parameters relating to identity of service providers parameters relating to the types of output available from the output device or provider and other parameters. As an example the user may desire a particular brand of service provider and may desire that the output images be within a range of 1000 meters of the mobile device location.

The mobile device proceeds to block where the mobile device utilizes the filter criteria to generate a query. The mobile device can query a database of output devices and service providers to determine the identity of devices and service providers if any that satisfy the criteria. The database can be local to the mobile device or can be in a network accessible location. For example the device and service provider database can be stored at a network location accessible through the cellular telephone communication system and managed by the cellular service provider. In that example the cellular service provider may also provide the position location services and thus the position of the mobile device need not be transmitted to any party outside of the cellular network.

The mobile device proceeds to block and receives a listing of output devices satisfying the query. The mobile device can receive the results from a local database query or from a networked or otherwise remote database.

The mobile device proceeds to block and displays or otherwise presents the results of the query to the user. For example the UPA can obtain the results of the query and can forward the results to the print application for display to the user.

The mobile device includes means for capturing an image . The means for capturing the image is coupled to a means for processing the image . The means for processing the image may include a means for processing other hardware and a means for storage . The means for storage may store images or video sequences before and after processing. The means for storage may include means for volatile storage and means for non volatile storage .

The mobile device a means for controlling a print operation . The means for controlling a print operation includes means for receiving a command to initialize a print output from a mobile device. The means for controlling a print operation can also include means for determining whether a selected output device is local or remote as well as means for determining whether a connection to the output device is established as wired or wireless.

The mobile device can include several means for communicating the image to the output device. The means for communicating the image can include means for communicating the image via a wired communication port . The means for communicating the image can include means for communicating the image via a wireless connection .

The means for controlling a print operation can control the means for communicating at least one image stored within the mobile device to the selected output device via the connection. The means for controlling the print operation can also operate in conjunction with a means for initiating position location of the mobile device . The means for controlling the print operation can also include means for determining output device options based at least in part on the location of the mobile device.

The method system and apparatus and or a microchip in the apparatus may enable home retail and online picture printing. A mobile device can support each of the different output scenarios in order to greatly simplify the print process. Examples of connections to output devices in each of the home retail and online scenarios are provided to illustrate some of the possible output connections that may be managed and supported by the mobile device.

At home the mobile device can connect to a local output device to support printing of images stored in the mobile device. For example the mobile device may connect via a universal serial bus USB link to a personal computer PC to a photo printer. There may be a USB plus PictBridge module direct from the mobile device e.g. cellular handset to a photo printer. Alternatively the mobile device can operate as a host over a USB connection directly to a printer.

Alternatively a user can use the print application on the mobile device to select a remote service or remote output device. A user may want prints mailed to the user. In one example the user can select an OTA link via a cellular network to a carrier service. The user may select special value added prints using the carrier provided service that would not ordinarily be available via a home printer.

There are virtually an unlimited number of possibilities. A user may print to a Bluetooth BT enabled home printer BT to photo printer . A user may print to a home printer using a memory card Digital Print Order Format DPOF to memory card . A user may want to print to a Universal Plug and Play UPnP enabled home printer using a wireless network communication protocol UPnP WiFi to photo printer . A user may want to print to a UPnP enabled home printer via an ultra wideband wireless link UPnP UWB to photo printer .

At a retail location the mobile device may use a Bluetooth wireless connection to print at a photo kiosk. The mobile device may initiate position location or a general LBS application in order to identify and locate nearby retailers. For example the mobile device can utilize an over the air interface to route selected images to a retailer identified using a global positioning satellite GPS system or A GPS.

In another example of an LBS application a user can determine the position of the mobile device and identify retailers within a predetermined radius that provide printing services. The user may want prints waiting at a local retail outlet and may utilize an OTA link in combination with GPS position location to enable identification and selection of participating local retailer s .

Similarly an example of remote output where position location is not needed is the scenario where a user wants prints waiting at a local retail outlet. In such a scenario the mobile device can establish an OTA link to a participating online web service. The user may identify a participating local retailer for pick up of the prints or may utilize LBS to identify participating retailers.

As examples of other scenarios a user may print to a kiosk using memory card DPOF to memory card . A user may print to a kiosk using Near Field Communication NFC NFC to kiosk . A user may print to a WiFi enabled kiosk WiFi to kiosk . A user may print to a UWB enabled kiosk UWB to kiosk .

The mobile device may print via a modem over the air to a carrier based online service. The user may want prints mailed to the user. As an example the mobile device can establish an OTA link to online web printing service. The mobile device can use for example the cellular communication system as a gateway to an Internet print service provider. The user may want special value added prints using the online web printing service.

A method system and mobile device that enable all three printing situations home retail and online may enable a convenient universal printing service. The method system and mobile device may be relatively easy to use with a unified print agent which may seamlessly integrate several connectivity options and hide underlying technology complexities. Some printing choice s may always be available. Higher print volumes and multiple output options may lower print costs.

The method may promote use of a carrier s own printing service promote increased use of airtime and carrier LBS for retail print routing option and or promote use of carrier options even if at home. For example a user may try to print at home but run out of ink or paper see that the online print options are also available and route to a local retailer.

An end to end system may be in two pieces a unified and coordinated UPA that manages all information and data required for all use cases and integrated on top of UPA a mobile print application for a seamless easy to use and trusted printing experience. Tight coordination of these two pieces may create an end to end system that is complete convenient and easy to use. The system may be configurable to benefit the entire mobile printing value chain.

A Universal Print Agent may provide connectivity technology coordination configuration discovery and a unified application programming interface API that may handle multiple mobile station modem MSM architectures technology variations and handle native and Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW API versions.

The system may tie to CDMA 1x Evolution Data Optimized EV DO Revision A DORA and High Speed Uplink Packet Access reverse link HSUPA R L for OTA services. The system may use USB HS WiFi UWB for new short range services.

For example the system may use time of day current location and distance to photo finisher plus give map from current location to photo finisher for customer. The system may use time of day and estimate of inside or outside of buildings to improve image post processing quality for printing.

A full solution may be bundled into an advanced mobile subscriber software release with an ability to configure which services are supported. This allows configuration based on a carrier s and or OEM desire.

As used herein the term coupled or connected is used to mean an indirect coupling as well as a direct coupling or connection. Where two or more blocks modules devices or apparatus are coupled there may be one or more intervening blocks between the two coupled blocks.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP a Reduced Instruction Set Computer RISC processor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices for example a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method process or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. The various steps or acts in a method or process may be performed in the order shown or may be performed in another order. Additionally one or more process or method steps may be omitted or one or more process or method steps may be added to the methods and processes. An additional step block or action may be added in the beginning end or intervening existing elements of the methods and processes.

The above description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person of ordinary skill in the art to make or use the disclosure. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus the disclosure is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

Various embodiments have been described. These and other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

