---

title: High isolation antenna design for reducing frequency coexistence interference
abstract: Various embodiments are directed to high isolation antenna design for reducing frequency coexistence interference. In one embodiment, a computing device may comprise a printed circuit board including a first internal antenna and a second internal antenna operating in a common frequency band. At least one of the first internal antenna and the second internal antenna may comprise a balanced antenna coupled to an unbalancing element to suppress surface current on the printed circuit board and reduce frequency coexistence interference between the first internal antenna and the second internal antenna. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07864120&OS=07864120&RS=07864120
owner: Palm, Inc.
number: 07864120
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070531
---
A mobile computing device may provide voice and data communications functionality as well as computing and processing capabilities. For voice and data communications a mobile computing device typically employs one or more radio transceivers and one or more antennas. Antenna design for a mobile computing device is an important consideration and is often limited by strict performance constraints.

In some cases a mobile computing device may support multiple modes of communication using the same band of the radio frequency RF spectrum. For example the mobile computing device may enable Bluetooth communication over a personal area network PAN as well as Wireless Fidelity WiFi communication over an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 wireless network using the 2.4 GHz range of the industrial scientific and medical ISM frequency band. Although Bluetooth and 802.11 radio transceivers each utilize spread spectrum modulation techniques if located on the same platform strong surface current may lead to significant mutual coupling and coexistence interference when two antennas are working simultaneously.

For a mobile computing device with a small form factor e.g. ID of 110 mm 60 mm or smaller coexistence interference is especially problematic. Accordingly there exists the need for improved antenna designs for reducing frequency coexistence interference.

Various embodiments are directed to internal antenna designs that may improve the performance of a mobile computing device by improving one or more of characteristics such as a size shape form factor power consumption battery life transceiver operations signal quality weight and other characteristics of the mobile computing device. For example various embodiments may reduce frequency coexistence interference and mutual coupling within a mobile computing device resulting in improved performance such as lower occurrences of transceiver blocking less voice noise and increased data rates. In various implementations the described embodiments may provide flexibility for low profile small and compact device designs. Accordingly a user may realize enhanced products and services.

While certain systems and techniques for reducing frequency coexistence interference may be described in the context of reducing antenna size for a mobile computing device it can be appreciated that various chip components e.g. inductors capacitors and or circuitry e.g. balun element hybrid phase element may be designed for implementation on a printed circuit board PCB or other device having a relatively larger size by modifying and or choosing the length width and numbers of pitch.

Mobile computing device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with various cellular telephone systems. Examples of cellular telephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems third generation 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems and others.

In addition to voice communications functionality mobile computing device may be arranged to provide wireless wide area network WWAN data communications functionality in accordance with various cellular telephone systems. Examples of cellular telephone systems offering WWAN data communications services may include EV DO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EV DV systems CDMA 1xRTT systems GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and others.

Mobile computing device may be arranged to provide data communications functionality in accordance with various types of wireless local area network WLAN systems. Examples of suitable WLAN systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and others.

Mobile computing device may be arranged to perform data communications in accordance with various types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communications services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electromagnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

Mobile computing device may operate in one or more frequency bands or sub bands such as the 2.4 GHz range of the ISM frequency band for WiFi and Bluetooth communications one or more of the 850 MHz 900 MHZ 1800 MHz and 1900 MHz frequency bands for GSM CDMA TDMA NAMPS cellular and or PCS communications the 2100 MHz frequency band for CDMA2000 EV DO and or WCDMA JMTS communications the 1575 MHz frequency band for Global Positioning System GPS operations and other frequency bands. This may be desirable since mobile computing device may be compatible with multiple wireless data multimedia and cellular telephone systems.

In some embodiments mobile computing device may be implemented as a multi band wireless device supporting operation in multiple frequency bands. In addition mobile computing device may implement various spatial diversity techniques to improve communication of wireless signals across one or more frequency bands of wireless shared media such as EV DO diversity at both the 850 MHz cellular band and the 1900 MHz PCS band.

As shown in Mobile computing device may comprise a housing . Housing may include one or more materials such as plastic metal ceramic glass carbon fiber various polymers and so forth suitable for enclosing and protecting the internal components of mobile computing device . Housing may be used to encapsulate various internal components for mobile computing device such as a removable and rechargeable battery processors memory transceivers printed circuit boards antennas and so forth. In various embodiments housing may have a shape size and or form factor capable of being held with an average human hand such as a handheld computer cellular telephone PDA combination PDA cellular telephone smart phone and so forth.

Mobile computing device may comprise a printed circuit board PCB . PCB may be implemented using materials such as FR4 Rogers R04003 and or Roger RT Duroid for example and may include one or more conductive traces via structures and or laminates. PCB also may include a finish such as Gold Nickel Tin or Lead. In various implementations PCB may be fabricated using processes such as etching bonding drilling and plating.

Mobile computing device may have an internal antenna architecture comprising a first internal antenna and a second internal antenna disposed on the PCB . In various embodiments first internal antenna and or second internal antenna each may comprise a single antenna or may be part of an array of antennas such as a quad band antenna array. First internal antenna and second internal antenna may remain in a fixed position internal to the housing in order to reduce the size and form factor of mobile computing device . Although only first internal antenna and second internal antenna are shown for purposes of illustration it can be appreciated that mobile computing device may comprise other internal and or external antennas in accordance with the described embodiments. For example multiple antennas in the form an antenna array may be employed when implementing spatial diversity techniques e.g. beamforming and or high throughput Multiple Input Multiple Output MIMO systems e.g. 802.11n and 802.16e systems .

In some embodiments first internal antenna and or second internal antenna may comprise a flexible material or substrate. A flexible material may include any pliant material that is capable of being bent or flexed such as a flexible printed circuit FPC . Other flexible materials may be used however such as a wire material helical material Teflon material RF4 material Mylar material dielectric substrate a soft plastic material and other flexible materials.

In some embodiments first internal antenna and or second internal antenna may comprise a rigid material rather than a flexible material. A rigid material may include any material that is deficient in or devoid of flexibility. Examples of rigid materials may include metal materials plastic materials ceramic materials and so forth. In one embodiment for example first internal antenna and or second internal antenna may be formed using a flat stamped metal having suitable characteristics according to the design and performance constraints for mobile computing device .

First internal antenna and or second internal antenna may be etched into PCB mounted to PCB or integrated with the midframe or housing of mobile computing device . In some cases first internal antenna and or second internal antenna may comprise multiple layers and or multiple traces. The number of layers and length of each layer may vary for a particular implementation. The antenna traces may have any suitable pattern or geometry tuned for various operating frequencies.

First internal antenna and second internal antenna may be arranged to transmit and or receive electrical energy in accordance with a given set of performance or design constraints as desired for a particular implementation. For example first internal antenna and second internal antenna may be configured for both transmission and reception. Such an arrangement could be used in WiFi or WiMax for example to improve data rate and voice service as well as to reduce multi path interference improve coverage and increase system capacity. In various embodiments first internal antenna and second internal antenna may operate at the same time for transmitting receiving or both.

During transmission an antenna e.g. first internal antenna and or second internal antenna may accept energy from a transmission line and radiate energy into space via a wireless shared media. During reception an antenna may gather energy from an incident wave received over the wireless shared media and provide energy to a corresponding transmission line. In various embodiments an antenna may operate in accordance with a desired Voltage Standing Wave Ratio VSWR value related to the impedance match of an antenna feed point and a conducting transmission line. To radiate RF energy with minimum loss and or to pass received RF energy to a receiver with minimum loss antenna impedance may need to be matched to the impedance of the conducting transmission line or feed point of PCB .

First internal antenna and the second internal antenna may be tuned for operating at one or more frequency bands. In various embodiments first internal antenna and second internal antenna may be arranged to operate using the same frequency band such as the 2.4 GHz range of the ISM frequency band. For example first internal antenna may allow WiFi communication over an IEEE 802.11 wireless network and second internal antenna may allow Bluetooth communication over a PAN. Although some embodiments may be described in the context of the 2.6 GHz range of the ISM frequency band for purposes of illustration it can be appreciated that the systems and techniques for reducing frequency coexistence interference described herein may be employed for other frequency bands in accordance with the described embodiments.

First internal antenna and second internal antenna may have different polarities to reduce frequency coexistence interference. In various embodiments first internal antenna and second internal antenna may have opposing orthogonal polarizations. For example first internal antenna may be vertically polarized along axis Y and second internal antenna may be horizontally polarized along axis X .

In various embodiments the spatial separation between first internal antenna and second internal antenna may be increased and or maximized to reduce frequency coexistence interference. For example first internal antenna and second internal antenna may be positioned substantially in opposite corners of mobile computing device or PCB . As shown in first internal antenna may be structured and arranged in close proximity to various components of mobile computing device such as a speaker a camera and or other components. While mobile computing device illustrates an exemplary embodiment of an internal antenna design it can be appreciated that the precise placement or location of first internal antenna and second internal antenna on PCB may be determined in accordance with various performance and design constraints.

As shown first internal antenna and second internal antenna may be separated by a battery within a battery compartment of mobile computing device . In various embodiments the battery compartment may comprise one or more high isolation vertical shield walls to reduce frequency coexistence interference. When implemented in the battery area or other common area between first internal antenna and second internal antenna shield walls may isolate first internal antenna and second internal antenna and suppress the propagation of electromagnetic EM waves to achieve higher isolation.

Both first internal antenna and second internal antenna may radiate in all the three dimensional directions. In a common area such as the battery area the E field and H field elements of first internal antenna and second internal antenna may interfere with each other. Accordingly shield walls may suppress such interference so that radio performance is not degraded even if the distance between first antenna and second antenna is relatively close with respect to the operating wavelength for example 110 mm and 2.4 GHz. This additional isolation may be important for applications and or systems which have strict interference requirements as well as for devices with smaller platforms.

The shield walls may be implemented by one or more walls comprising a conductive shielding material such as one or more metals metallic ink or other suitable material. In some implementations shield walls may be shorted to PCB to achieve better shielding performance. Shield walls also may comprise connected walls by using one or more metal pieces to cover the top side or and bottom side of battery . Such metal cover piece s may extend beyond the batter compartment and closer to first internal antenna and or second internal antenna . In addition isolation may be improved by attaching absorbent material on the shield walls and or cover pieces. Shield walls and or metal cover pieces also may be integrated into the midframe of the mobile computing device to enhance its mechanical strength.

In various embodiments first internal antenna and second internal antenna each may comprise a balanced antenna to reduce frequency coexistence interference. In such embodiments first internal antenna and second internal antenna may be implemented by a balanced dipole antenna or other suitable balanced antenna. When implemented as balanced antennas first internal antenna and second internal antenna may induce weaker surface current on the PCB and provide lower mutual coupling as compared to unbalances antennas.

For wireless devices having small form factors it may be disadvantageous to employ an unbalanced antenna such as a planar inverted F antenna PIFA or a monopole antenna in an internal antenna design for 2.4 GHz operation. Such unbalanced antennas would utilize the PCB as a counter arm resulting in strong surface current on the PCB leading to significant mutual coupling and frequency coexistence interference when first internal antenna and second internal antenna are working simultaneously in the same frequency band.

Balanced antenna may be implemented as a dipole antenna comprising a first antenna arm and a second antenna arm . First antenna arm and second antenna arm may be implemented by antenna traces and or branch lines and may comprise various chip components e.g. resistors capacitors inductors and or circuitry to reduce the size of balanced antenna .

As shown first antenna arm and second antenna arm each may comprise one or more chip components and or circuitry in order to significantly reduce the size of balanced antenna . In for example first antenna arm may comprise a series inductor and second antenna arm may comprise a series inductor . In first antenna arm may comprise inductor in parallel with a capacitor and second antenna arm may comprise inductor in parallel with a capacitor . While illustrate exemplary embodiments of balanced antenna it can be appreciated that various other configurations chip components and or circuitry may be implemented in accordance with the described embodiments.

By inserting one or more chip component and or circuitry into first antenna arm and second antenna arm the size of balanced antenna may be significantly reduced from a typical length which may be approximately one half wavelength 2 long or about 62.5 mm for 2.4 GHz. Accordingly balanced antenna may be suitable for use as first internal antenna and second internal antenna in mobile computing device to allow greater spatial separation between first internal antenna and second internal antenna and to reduce frequency coexistence interference.

Balun element may comprise various devices and or circuitry that when coupled to balanced antenna may reduce the overall size of balanced antenna . Balun element may be implemented for example by an on chip balun discrete balun ceramic balun micro strip balun or other suitable device or circuitry in accordance with the described embodiments. In various embodiments balun element may support bandwidths which are relatively narrow e.g. 3 but suitable for Bluetooth and 802.11b g coexistence.

Balun element may comprise a first balanced port coupled to first antenna arm and a second balanced port coupled to second antenna arm . Balun element may comprise an unbalanced port to effect balanced unbalanced transitions. Unbalanced port may comprise an input port or an output port depending on a particular implementation. For example balun element may comprise a bidirectional device to transition from balanced I Os to unbalanced I Os and vice versa.

In various embodiments balun element may be arranged to transition and or transform balanced antenna from balanced to unbalanced. In such embodiments balun element may suppress PCB surface current to improve isolation of balanced antenna and reduce frequency coexistence interference. For example balun element may keep first antenna arm and second antenna arm balanced so that first antenna arm and second antenna arm have the same current distribution. When coupled to first internal antenna and or second internal antenna of for example balun element may prevent current from leaking to PCB to improve isolation and reduce frequency coexistence interference.

In some cases a ground plane may be required underneath first internal antenna and second internal antenna . When sharing the ground plane first internal antenna and second internal antenna inherently are coupled to each other which may compromise the isolation between first internal antenna and second internal antenna . To improve isolation first internal antenna and or second internal antenna may be drawn through a corresponding balun . By drawing one or both internal antennas e.g. first internal antenna second internal antenna through a corresponding balun element the antennas may be disconnected from the ground plane and or each other to improve isolation between the antennas and reduced frequency coexistence interference.

Phase hybrid element may comprise various devices and or circuitry that when coupled to balanced antenna may reduce the overall size of balanced antenna . In various embodiments phase hybrid element may be arranged to perform functions similar to balun element but for much broader bandwidth. For example the bandwidth could be 3 1 to 10 1.

Phase hybrid element may comprise a 180 degree phase hybrid device arranged to equally divide power between a first output port and a second output port with either a 0 or 180 degree phase. First output port may be coupled to first antenna arm to implement a 0 degree phase and second output port may be coupled to second antenna arm to implement a 180 degree phase. Phase hybrid element may be arranged so that currents in first antenna arm and second antenna arm are of equal magnitude but out of phase. As shown phase hybrid element also may comprise an input port and an I O port designed with defined impedance e.g. 50 ohm impedance .

In various implementations phase hybrid element may suppress PCB surface current to improve isolation of balanced antenna and reduce frequency coexistence interference. When coupled to first internal antenna and or second internal antenna of for example phase hybrid element may prevent current from leaking to PCB to improve isolation and reduce frequency coexistence interference. By drawing one or both internal antennas e.g. first internal antenna second internal antenna through a corresponding phase hybrid e.g. phase hybrid element the antennas may be disconnected from a shared ground plane and or each other to improve isolation between the antennas and reduced frequency coexistence interference.

First internal antenna and second internal antenna may be coupled to a transceiver module operatively associated with a processor module . First internal antenna may be coupled to transceiver module via first unbalancing element and second internal antenna may be connected to a transceiver module via second unbalancing element . In various embodiments first unbalancing element and or second unbalancing element may be implemented as a balun e.g. balun element or a phase hybrid e.g. phase hybrid element as described with reference to and .

Transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to perform data communications in accordance with one or more wireless communications protocols such as WWAN protocols e.g. GSM GPRS protocols CDMA 1xRTT protocols EDGE protocols EV DO protocols EV DV protocols HSDPA protocols etc. WLAN protocols e.g. IEEE 802.11a b g n IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 etc. PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols and so forth. Transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communication for a cellular telephone system such as a GSM UMTS and or CDMA system. In some embodiments transceiver module may comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

Processor module may comprise one or more processors for performing operations in accordance with the described embodiments. Examples of a processor may include without limitation a central processing unit CPU general purpose processor dedicated processor chip multiprocessor CMP communications processor radio processor baseband processor network processor media processor digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor input output I O processor embedded processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other suitable processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

In various embodiments processor module may comprise a radio processor implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. The radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. The radio processor may be arranged to perform analog and or digital baseband operations such as digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth. The radio processor may comprise both analog and digital baseband sections. The analog baseband section may include I Q filters analog to digital converters digital to analog converters audio circuits and other circuits. The digital baseband section may include one or more encoders decoders equalizers demodulators Gaussian Minimum Shift Keying GSMK modulators GPRS ciphers transceiver controls automatic frequency control AFC automatic gain control AGC power amplifier PA ramp control and other circuits.

In some embodiments processor module may implement a dual processor architecture including a radio processor and a host processor. In such embodiments the host processor may be implemented as a host CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. The host processor and the radio processor may communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines audio lines and so forth. Although some embodiments may be described as comprising a dual processor architecture for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that processor module may comprise any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and application programs to provide computing and processing operations for mobile computing device . System programs generally may assist in the running of mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The system programs may comprise at least one operating system OS implemented for example as one or more of a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE OS Microsoft Pocket PC OS Microsoft Mobile OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. Mobile computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. In various implementations application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

Examples of application programs may include without limitation messaging applications web browsing applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player television digital camera video camera media management gaming applications GPS applications LBS applications and other types of applications in accordance with the described embodiments. The messaging applications may comprise for example a telephone application such as a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VOIP application a Push to Talk PTT application and so forth. The messaging applications may further comprise a voicemail application a facsimile application a video teleconferencing application an instant messaging IM application an e mail application a Short Message Service SMS application a Multimedia Messaging MMS application and so forth.

The processor module may be coupled to a memory . Memory may comprise various types of computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other suitable type of computer readable media in accordance with the described embodiments. It can be appreciated that memory may be separate from a processor or may be included on the same integrated circuit as a processor. In some cases some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive memory card external to a processor and accessible via a memory bus.

Numerous specific details have been set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details are representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design and or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation.

It is worthy to note that some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. With respect to software elements for example the term coupled may refer to interfaces message interfaces API exchanging messages and so forth.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more functional components or modules for performing various operations. It can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media.

It also is to be appreciated that the described embodiments illustrate exemplary implementations and that the functional components and or modules may be implemented in various other ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. Furthermore the operations performed by such components or modules may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components or modules.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device.

It also is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

