---

title: Systems and methods for market performance analysis
abstract: A system comprises a data integration module to receive data from two or more different financial service systems, a data transformation module to transform the data, a data storage module to store the transformed data in a persistent raw data store, an analytic module configured use a business rule to condition data stored in the persistent raw data store, and a report module to organize the conditioned data for reporting. A system comprises a business rules engine, an analytic engine to automatically generate a result data set using a rule, and a report engine organize data extracted from the result data set in a report. A system comprises a raw data storage module to store persistent raw data, a processed data storage module to store processed data, a decision module configured to determine a scope of a business rule and adaptively apply the business rule to the data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08452636&OS=08452636&RS=08452636
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08452636
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071029
---
This application is related to U.S. applications entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MARKET PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS Ser. No. 11 927 090 and SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MARKET PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS Ser. No. 11 927 114 each of which being filed on even date herewith.

Various embodiments described herein relate generally to computer systems and more particularly but not by way of limitation to systems and methods for market performance analysis.

Product marketing is a complex science. In some ways product marketing and analysis is made even more complex in light of modern technology. Using modern computer networks and databases an incredible amount of information is available for different types of analysis. However with the increased amount of data comes the risk of compromising the confidence of any analysis performed using such data.

Systems and methods for market performance analysis are described. In an embodiment a system comprises a data integration module configured to receive data from two or more different financial service systems selected from a banking system an insurance system and an investment system. The system further comprises a data transformation module configured to transform the data to a compatible format a data storage module configured to store the transformed data in a persistent raw data store an analytic module configured to use a business rule to condition data stored in the persistent raw data store and a report module configured to organize the conditioned data for reporting.

In an embodiment a system comprises a business rules engine an analytic engine operatively coupled to the business rules engine the analytic engine configured to automatically generate a result data set using a rule available from the business rules engine wherein the result data set combines data from two or more different financial services selected from banking insurance and investments and a report engine operatively coupled to the analytic engine the report engine configured to extract data from the result data set and organize the extracted data in a report wherein the report comprises a measurement of product usage within the two or more different financial services.

In an embodiment a system comprises a raw data storage module configured to store a persistent raw data set. The system further comprises a processed data storage module configured to store a processed data set wherein the processed data set comprises data selected from the persistent raw data set based on a set of fixed business rules. The system further comprises a decision module configured to determine a scope of a configurable business rule and adaptively apply the configurable business rule to the persistent raw data set or the processed data set based on the determination of the scope of the configurable business rule to obtain an output data set. The system further comprises an output module configured to present the output data set.

The following detailed description includes references to the accompanying drawings which form a part of the detailed description. The drawings show by way of illustration example embodiments. These embodiments which are also referred to herein as examples are described in enough detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice aspects of the inventive subject matter.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or unless otherwise indicated.

The network may include local area networks LAN wide area networks WAN wireless networks e.g. 802.11 or cellular network the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN network ad hoc networks personal area networks e.g. Bluetooth or other combinations or permutations of network protocols and network types. The network may include a single local area network LAN or wide area network WAN or combinations of LAN s or WAN s such as the Internet. The various devices coupled to the network may be coupled to the network via one or more wired or wireless connections.

The web server may communicate with the file server to publish or serve files stored on the file server . The web server may also communicate or interface with the application server to enable web based presentation of information. For example the application server may consist of scripts applications or library files that provide primary or auxiliary functionality to the web server e.g. multimedia file transfer or dynamic interface functions . In addition the application server may also provide some or the entire interface for the web server to communicate with one or more of the other servers in the market performance analysis system e.g. the messaging server or the database management server . The web server either alone or in conjunction with one or more other computers in the market performance analysis system may provide a user interface. The user interface may be implemented using a variety of programming languages or programming methods such as HTML HyperText Markup Language VBScript Visual Basic Scripting Edition JavaScript XML Extensible Markup Language XSLT Extensible Stylesheet Language Transformations AJAX Asynchronous JavaScript and XML Java JFC Java Foundation Classes and Swing an Application Programming Interface for Java .

In an embodiment the client computer may include a client program to interface with the market performance analysis system . The client program may include commercial software custom software open source software freeware shareware or other types of software packages. In an embodiment the client program includes a thin client designed to provide query and data manipulation tools for a user of the client computer . The client program may interact with a server program hosted by for example the application server . Alternatively the client program may interface with the database management server .

The application server may also include a business rules application platform to create manage and administer business rules. The business rules application platform may include commercial packages such as ORACLE BUSINESS RULES provided by ORACLE CORP. of Redwood Shores Calif. The application server may also include an ETL extract transform and load package such as POWERCENTER provided by INFORMATICA CORP. of Redwood City Calif.

The market performance database may be composed of one or more logical or physical databases. For example the market performance database may be viewed as a system of databases that when viewed as a compilation represent a market performance database. Sub databases in such a configuration may include a product database a customer database a sales database a marketing database a business rules database an operations database and the like. The market performance database may be implemented as a relational database a centralized database a distributed database an object oriented database or a flat database in various embodiments.

During operation data from multiple data sources is imported into the market performance database . Data sources may exist within an organization such as a sales department or a subsidiary corporation or exist at an external source such as a business affiliate or a public record source. The data may be imported on a scheduled basis such as weekly monthly quarterly or some other regular or periodic interval. Alternatively the data may be imported on demand.

After data importation the data may be standardized and then stored in a common database or data mart. For example database records from business affiliates or other external or even internal sources may not be in a compatible format with the common database or data mart e.g. market performance database . Data conditioning may include data rearrangement normalization filtering e.g. removing duplicates sorting binning or other operations to transform the data into a common format e.g. using similar date formats name formats address fields etc. .

Once imported and standardized the data may be considered to be in a raw form. That is the data accurately represents the source data albeit reformatted or rearranged for the sake of compatibility and consistency. In an embodiment the raw data is stored for a relatively long period of time such as six months or even several years. This persistent raw data storage may be useful for various purposes such as data backup and restore data auditing or data modeling. In an embodiment the persistent raw data is stored using a rolling window of data. For example an administrative user may define a window size of six months. When new data is saved in the persistent raw data data older than the window size may be expunged from the persistent raw data storage. In an embodiment more than one window sizes are used and each window size may be associated with a particular data. For example banking data may be stored using a window size of six months while investment data may be stored using a window size of four years. As another example customer data may be stored using a window size that effectively stores the data for at least the expected lifetime of the customer e.g. a window size of one hundred years .

In an embodiment the persistent raw data is used as a basis for reporting and analysis. For example one or more business rules may be applied to a subset of data from the persistent raw data resulting in filtered data. The filtered data may then be presented using a report or a simulation environment in various embodiments. Within a simulation environment the filtered data may be further manipulated using simulated business rules or other simulated variables. Simulation may be used for example to model what if scenarios. Simulation may also be useful to determine which set of input parameters are needed to produce a desired result. Depending on the business rules used in the simulation the simulator may need to access data from the persistent raw data store or from the filtered data. For example business rules that add to an existing set of previously applied business rules may be aggregated on the filtered data however business rules that replace or modify previously applied business rules should be applied to the persistent raw data to avoid incorrect results. If several levels of simulation are used then intermediate data sets may be maintained and business rules may be applied logically to avoid applying inconsistent ineffective or redundant business rules on previously filtered data.

Reports generated using the filtered data or from data obtained in a simulator may include dynamic navigation mechanisms. For example a report may include a user interface control such as a hyperlink that allows a user to drill down and obtain more details about data presented in the report. As an illustrative example a user may be presented with a number that represents a number of open accounts related to the user s business. The user may be able to activate a control e.g. mouse click to bring up another user interface display e.g. a pop up window a child window a dynamic frame a comment window etc. that includes an indication of which business rule or rules were used to obtain the particular number of open accounts. The user may also be presented with a data history e.g. the data source a description of data conditioning a description of the business rules applied and in which order a brief description of what the data represents etc. . Other types of interface elements to drill down into data views or meta data are described below.

In various embodiments the market performance analysis system may use a business rule which may be defined using the application server . A report using the business rule may then be obtained. generally describe systems and processes that may perform such tasks. In some embodiments processes are implemented as instructions on a computer readable medium.

The data integration module receives data from two or more different financial service systems. In an embodiment the two or more different financial service systems are selected from a banking system an insurance system and an investment system. The banking system insurance system and investment system may be grouped under the same corporate entity in an embodiment.

The data transformation module transforms the data to a compatible format. Data may be transformed to conform to a database schema e.g. normalization of the data to conform to data format rules e.g. names using the format last middle first or formatting a value using a fixed field size or to conform to fundamental business rules e.g. sanity checks . The data storage module stores the transformed data in a persistent raw data store. For example the transformed data may be stored in the market performance database .

The analytic module uses a business rule to condition data stored in the persistent raw data store. The business rule may be used to impose a certain level of confidence in the resulting numbers. For example in a banking system a large number of savings accounts are substantially inactive. Banking customers may have opened a savings account to open a checking account and then ignored or abandoned use of the savings account. In such cases the banking management may wish to dismiss these inactive accounts when counting the number of existing savings accounts. A simple business rule that may be used for this purpose may be if no savings account activity in last year then don t count or if savings account balance 

The report module organizes the conditioned data for reporting. In an example the report module may create a temporary storage area such as a temporary table in the market performance database and store data for eventual reporting in the temporary table.

In a further embodiment the modules include a presentation module configured to present a report using the organized conditioned data. In a further embodiment the presentation module presents the report using a product view. The product view may include a summary of products or services offered and corresponding numbers or counts that indicate a number of individuals that own or use the product or service. The counts may also be indicative of a number of households or other domestic or demographic organization e.g. nuclear families extended families domestic partnerships etc. .

In an embodiment the product view is based on distinguishing account type products from agreement type products. For example agreement type products such as insurance products may be distinguished or separated in a report from account type products such as credit card checking loan or other accounts.

In an embodiment the report comprises an indication of a basis of each value represented in the report. For example the basis may include an indication of the origin or transformations performed on the value. In a further embodiment the basis of a value comprises a business rule used to obtain the value. For example a value may include a subscript or superscript indicia that indicate which business rule or rules were used to obtain the number shown. In a further embodiment the basis of a value comprises a data lineage. For example the data source or sources may be included using a notation indicia e.g. in conjunction with a legend .

In an embodiment the product view is based on an importance of a product with respect to one of an economic business metric or a business relationship. The product view may be sorted or filtered e.g. using business rules using a gross income net income gross sales proportionate income or other economic business metric. Similarly the product view may be sorted or filtered using a strength of a business relationship e.g. measured in economic terms subjective belief contractual bindings length of relationship or otherwise a type of business relationship e.g. parent subsidiary formal partner company informal business associate etc. or other classification such as geographic relationships.

In a further embodiment a report is presented using the organized conditioned data. In a further embodiment the report is presented using a product view. In an embodiment the product view is based on distinguishing account type products from agreement type products. In an embodiment the report comprises an indication of a basis of each value represented in the report. In an embodiment the basis of a value comprises a business rule used to obtain the value. In an embodiment the basis of a value comprises a data lineage.

The business rules engine may include one or more processing modules to allow a user or process to build and manage business rules. In an embodiment the business rules engine is hosted or incorporated into the application server . Business rules may be stored using a variety of methods such as in a database a file or encoded in software. For example rules may be stored as programmatic conditional statements in a database to be accessed using a database management interface or database access software. As another example rules may be stored using files such as a spreadsheet or a file formatted using a standardized interface language e.g. XML . As yet another example rules may be hard coded in analysis software or other application software. Hard coding rules may have an advantage of preventing intentional or unintentional modifications which may affect the results produced in a report. For example hard coding rules may prevent analysts or management from manipulating the data to present a favorable but inaccurate outcome. As another example hard coding rules may also prevent user error or other unintentional modifications that produce undetected inaccurate results. Business rules may vary in complexity. For example rules may be dependent on each other rules may be nested or rules may use advanced comparison operations such as selection from lists sub string searches or regular expression tests.

The analytic engine is operatively coupled to the business rules engine and automatically generates a result data set using a rule available from the business rules engine. In an embodiment the result data set combines data from two or more different financial services selected from banking insurance and investments.

The report engine is operatively coupled to the analytic engine and extracts data from the result data set and organizes the extracted data in a report. In an embodiment the report comprises a measurement of product usage within the two or more different financial services. The measurement of product usage may represent a number of times a customer accesses an account associated with a product e.g. a credit card usage a bank account usage or a home equity account usage a number of times a service is used e.g. a customer support service a flower delivery service a product information request service etc. or other usage measurements related to financial service products or services.

In an embodiment the analytic engine is incorporated or integrated into the business rules engine . In such an embodiment data manipulation such as filtering grouping extracting or sorting may be performed by the business rules engine with the augmented abilities available from the analytic engine . In another embodiment the analytic engine is incorporated or integrated into the report engine to provide similar functionality when creating managing or producing reports via the report engine .

In an embodiment the measurement of product usage within the two or more different types of financial services comprises a measurement of product usage based on a change in a number of products. For example the number of products available from month to month may be indicative of more or less demand depending on marketed indicators. In such an example an increase in available products may be used to indicate a higher product usage.

In an embodiment the measurement of product usage within the two or more different types of financial services comprises a measurement of product usage based on a change in a number of individuals associated with products being measured. As the number of customers increase or decrease an inference may be made to the associated products that are receiving a corresponding increase or decrease in popularity and consequently usage.

In an embodiment the measurement of product usage within the two or more different types of financial services comprises a measurement of product usage based on a change in a number of households associated with products being measured. Similar to the measurement based on the change in the number of individuals a measure based on the number of households may be more accurate for some products or services that are targeted to households such as a family health plan where a change in the total number of individuals may be less meaningful to analysis than a change in the total number of households.

In an embodiment the automated report comprises a drill down mechanism usable to obtain a detailed set of data related to data contained in the automated report. The drill down mechanism may include a series of user interface windows or other dynamic programmatic element that allows a user to view increasing or decreasing levels of granularity showing details about the data. For example the granularity details may show a when how or why data was manipulated modified or conditioned to arrive at the present result.

In an embodiment the rule available from the business engine comprises an exclusionary rule. In a further embodiment the exclusionary rule is based on a relationship between an individual and a product wherein the individual is a consumer of the product and wherein the product is offered by one of the financial services. An exclusionary rule may be useful to exclude certain data points in a data population that may represent false positives. For example counting a number of open checking accounts may be one way of measuring a product usage. However without an exclusionary rule that removes inactive checking accounts e.g. accounts that have not been accessed in over six months the number of open checking accounts may include a certain number of false positives and may not fully or accurately represent the data view that a user expects to see. In addition using unfiltered data may result in faulty analysis that relies on the intermediate result.

In an embodiment extracted data from the result data set is organized in a report. The report may include a measurement of product usage within the two or more different financial services. In an embodiment the measurement of product usage within the two or more different types of financial services includes a measurement of product usage based on a change in a number of products. In an embodiment the measurement of product usage within the two or more different types of financial services includes a measurement of product usage based on a change in a number of individuals associated with products being measured. In an embodiment the measurement of product usage within the two or more different types of financial services includes a measurement of product usage based on a change in a number of households associated with products being measured. In an embodiment the automated report comprises a drill down mechanism usable to obtain a detailed set of data related to data contained in the automated report. In an embodiment the rule available from the business engine comprises an exclusionary rule. In a further embodiment the exclusionary rule is based on a relationship between an individual and a product wherein the individual is a consumer of the product and wherein the product is offered by one of the financial services.

The raw data storage module stores a persistent data set. Persistent data may include data that is received from one or more financial service systems. The data may be conditioned as was described above to exist in a compatible format in the raw data storage module .

The processed data storage module stores a processed data set. In an embodiment the processed data set includes data selected from the persistent raw data set based on a set of fixed business rules. The fixed set of business rules may be encoded in software. The fixed set of business rules may be also be stored in a database in a file or in other computer readable media e.g. a read only device .

The decision module determines a scope of a configurable business rule and adaptively applies the configurable business rule to the persistent raw data set or the processed data set based on the determination of the scope of the configurable business rule to obtain an output data set. The configurable business rule may be configurable by a user or the market performance analysis system in various embodiments. For example a user may wish to obtain analytical results based on projected or simulated conditions. Using a configurable business rule the user may apply the rule to the persistent data set or the processed data set. The user however would not want to have a configurable business rule applied to the processed data set when the processed data set has already been modified by a business rule that is substantially similar to the configurable business rule. Doing so may cause confusion or present inaccurate results.

In a further embodiment the decision module determines whether the configurable business rule is substantially similar to a rule in the set of fixed business rules and then defines the scope of the configurable business rule based on the determination of whether the configurable business rule is substantially similar to a rule in the set of fixed business rules. For example a fixed business rule may be designed to remove inactive customers from an accounting of customers using the rule if customer inactive for more than 6 months then do not count. In this case a configurable business rule that seeks to perform a similar filtering on the processed data may not be applied as expected. For example if the configurable business rule stated if customer inactive for more than 3 months then do not count the resulting data set would be under inclusive due to the previously applied fixed business rule. Because of the similarity of the business rules the configurable business rule should be applied to the persistent data set e.g. raw data instead of the intermediate data set e.g. processed data to obtain the more accurate result.

In an embodiment the configurable business rule comprises a rule based on a relationship between two or more different financial service products selected from the financial service industries of banking insurance and investments.

In an embodiment the configurable business rule is selected to obtain a predetermined target result. For example a business unit may use a target or goal and then manipulate the configurable business rules to achieve the target or goal amount by working backwards.

In an embodiment the configurable business rule is restricted to a subset of data based on a user s role. For example analysts in a particular department may only be allowed to view and obtain reports on data related to their particular department. Similarly managers may be restricted from viewing rolled up data results for other areas of a company.

In an embodiment the configurable business rule is designed to alter a product type to obtain a simulated actual count in the output data set. For example in some cases a financial product may be able to be subjectively classified as one of several types of products. For business purposes the financial product may be classified as one product type for some reports and as another product type for other reports depending on the determination of the product within the context of the respective report.

In an embodiment the configurable business rule is designed to alter a product owner to obtain a simulated actual count in the output data set. Similar to manipulating product types product owners may also be ambiguous in some situations. For example a product may be offered by two separate branches of the same company. However if both branches counted the product in their reports the product may be inadvertently double counted. A business rule may be constructed to artificially assign the product to one owner which may increase the clarity and accuracy of the resulting data.

The output module presents the output data set. In an embodiment the output module presents the output data to a user at the client computer within a graphical user interface. The graphical user interface may be included in an internet browsing software or other client software. In an embodiment the output module presents the output data to a user as a file. The file may include a database a spreadsheet a flat file e.g. a comma delimited format a report or other organized output.

At a scope of a configurable business rule is determined and adaptively applied to the persistent raw data set or the processed data set based on the determination of the scope of the configurable business rule. The result of the application of the business rule is stored in an output data set. In a further embodiment determining the scope of the business rule includes determining whether the configurable business rule is substantially similar to a rule in the set of fixed business rules and defining the scope of the configurable business rule based on the determination of whether the configurable business rule is substantially similar to a rule in the set of fixed business rules.

In an embodiment the configurable business rule comprises a rule based on a relationship between two or more different financial service products selected from the financial service industries of banking insurance and investments. In an embodiment the configurable business rule is selected to obtain a predetermined target result. In an embodiment the configurable business rule is restricted to a subset of data based on a user s role. In an embodiment the configurable business rule is designed to alter a product type to obtain a simulated actual count in the output data set. In an embodiment the configurable business rule is designed to alter a product owner to obtain a simulated actual count in the output data set. At the output data set is presented.

The computer system includes a processor a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device to interface the computer system to a network .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored a set of instructions or software embodying any one or all of the methodologies described herein. The software is also shown to reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor . The software may further be transmitted or received via the network interface device .

For the purposes of this specification the term machine readable medium or computer readable medium shall be taken to include any medium which is capable of storing or encoding a sequence of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one of the methodologies. The terms machine readable medium or computer readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic disks and other temporary transient or permanent storage means such an executable streaming downloadable program. Further it will be appreciated that the software could be distributed across multiple machines or storage media which may include the machine readable medium.

Method embodiments described herein may be computer implemented. Some embodiments may include computer readable media encoded with a computer program e.g. software which includes instructions operable to cause an electronic device to perform methods of various embodiments. A software implementation or computer implemented method may include microcode assembly language code or a higher level language code which further may include computer readable instructions for performing various methods. The code may form portions of computer program products. Further the code may be tangibly stored on one or more volatile or non volatile computer readable media during execution or at other times. These computer readable media may include but are not limited to hard disks removable magnetic disks removable optical disks e.g. compact disks and digital video disks magnetic cassettes memory cards or sticks random access memories RAM s read only memories ROM s and the like.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. For example one module may be implemented as multiple logical modules or several modules may be implemented as a single logical module. As another example modules labeled as first second and third etc. may be implemented in a single module or in some combination of modules as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.

In the foregoing Detailed Description various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments of the invention require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate preferred embodiment.

In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

The Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b which requires that it allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.

