---

title: Mashup delivery community portal market manager
abstract: A computer-implementable method and system for managing a mashup web-based community portal. A network-based community portal having a mashup platform integrated therewith can be provided and one or more pre-negotiated bartering agreements designated, in response to a particular user input by one or more users of the network-based community portal. A management module (e.g., a “Market Manager”) can be associated with the network-based community portal in order to permit the users of the network-based community portal to describe to the mashup platform the pre-negotiated bartering agreement(s), in order to permit the network-based community portal to manage the utilization of mashup applications associated with the mashup platform and one or more widget contained by the mashup applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07954115&OS=07954115&RS=07954115
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07954115
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071211
---
Embodiments are generally related to data processing systems and methods. Embodiments also relate in general to the field of computers and similar technologies and in particular to software utilized in this field. In addition embodiments relate to web based mashups and the management thereof.

A new breed of Web based data integration applications is sprouting up all across the Internet. Colloquially termed mashups their popularity stems from the emphasis on interactive user participation and the monster of Frankenstein like manner in which they aggregate and stitch together third party data. The sprouting metaphor is a reasonable one a mashup Web site is characterized by the way in which it spreads roots across the Web drawing upon content and functionality retrieved from data sources that lay outside of its organizational boundaries.

This vague data integration definition of a mashup certainly is not a rigorous one. A good insight as to what makes a mashup is to took at the etymology of the term it was borrowed from the pop music scene where a mashup is a new song that is mixed from the vocal and instrumental tracks from two different source songs i.e. usually belonging to different genres . Like these songs a mashup is an unusual or innovative composition of content e.g. often from unrelated data sources made for human i.e. rather than computerized consumption.

So what might a mashup look like The ChicagoCrime.org Web site is a great intuitive example of what s called a mapping mashup. One of the first mashups to gain widespread popularity in the press the Web site mashes crime data from the Chicago Police Department s online database with cartography from Google Maps. Users can interact with the mashup site such as instructing it to graphically display a map containing pushpins that reveal the details of all recent burglary crimes in South Chicago. The concept and the presentation are simple and the composition of crime and map data is visually powerful.

Mashups thus represent an exciting genre of interactive Web applications that draw upon content retrieved from external data sources to create entirely new and innovative services. They are a hallmark of the second generation of Web applications informally known as Web 2.0. This introductory article explores what it means to be a mashup the different classes of popular mashups constructed today and the enabling technologies that mashup developers leverage to create their applications. Additionally you ll see many of the emerging technical and social challenges that mashup developers face.

In the Web 2.0 era software components known as widgets or gadgets are becoming the focus of a component based programming model. These Widgets which encapsulate web services e.g. REST SOAP XMLRPC etc and marry the resulting content with new rich interactive user interfaces are targeted for use by less skilled users e.g. non programmers to create new situational applications or mashups. A mashup can be thought of as a web application that combines data from more than one source into a single integrated tool an example is the use of cartographic data from Google Maps to add location information to real estate data from Craigslist thereby creating a new and distinct web service that was not originally provided by either source. Google for example is developing Google Gadgets for their online Google Portal and Microsoft has developed gadgets for its Windows Live portal application. IBM for example has recently made an entry into this arena with its Mashup Maker technology which is referred to as QEDWiki.

Before a mashup ecosystem can mature around a production and consumption of such Widgets content providers need to realize some sort of bartering systems that will support a business justification for entry into this evolving marketplace. In order for a Widget Content Provider to justify an investment into this space such an entity needs a platform whereby their widgets can be provisioned for consumption e.g. for fee or trade by mashup assemblers and consumers. The concept of a Mashup Delivery Community Portal reflects the notion of a Service Provider platform for connecting Mashup Consumers Mashup Assemblers and Widget Providers. A Market Manager for example represents the concept of a software component within a Service Providers Mashup Delivery Community Portal MDCP whereby community participants can describe to the mashup platform pre negotiated bartering agreements. These agreements can be then utilized to assist the Mashup Delivery Community Portal in managing the utilization of mashup applications and the widgets they contain.

The following summary is provided to facilitate an understanding of some of the innovative features unique to the present invention and is not intended to be a full description. A full appreciation of the various aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein can be gained by taking the entire specification claims drawings and abstract as a whole.

It is therefore one aspect of the present invention to provide for an improved data processing method system and computer usable medium.

It is another aspect of the present invention to provide for a method system and computer usable medium for object profiling.

It is an additional aspect of the present invention to provide for an improved method system and computer usable medium for managing a web based mashup.

The aforementioned aspects and other objectives and advantages can now be achieved as described herein. A computer implementable method and system for managing a mashup web based community portal. In general a network based community portal having a mashup platform integrated therewith can be provided and one or more pre negotiated bartering agreements designated in response to a particular user input by one or more users of the network based community portal. A management module e.g. a Market Manager can be associated with the network based community portal in order to permit the users of the network based community portal to describe to the mashup platform the pre negotiated bartering agreement s in order to permit the network based community portal to manage the utilization of mashup applications associated with the mashup platform and one or more widget contained by the mashup applications.

The management module serves two purposes. First the management module can provide a browser based user interface for members of the MDCP to enter and describe business arrangements to the system. Second the management module can provide an interface to an external system that is responsible for reporting utilization metrics to community participants. This programmable interface would allow such an external system component to calculate account balances for each community participate based on the content supplied to the management module. The ability to communicate utilization metrics with other MDCP components should not be underplayed. Each user participant in the MDCP has an interest in the utilization metrics of the system with respect to predefined negotiations. For example a Widget Provider would like to know how many transactions e.g. usage units a Mashup Assembler may have accrued to date. Additionally the same Widget Provider as well as the Service Provider would like to know if those metrics were inline with current agreements and if so what the associated revenue e.g. monetary or bartering value impact has on each of their MDCP system accounts respectively.

The particular values and configurations discussed in these non limiting examples can be varied and are cited merely to illustrate at least one embodiment and are not intended to limit the scope of such embodiments.

As depicted in the present invention may be embodied in the context of a data processing system comprising a central processor a main memory an input output controller a keyboard a pointing device e.g. mouse track ball pen device or the like a display device and a mass storage e.g. hard disk . Additional input output devices such as a printing device may be included in the data processing system as desired. As illustrated the various components of the data processing system communicate through a system bus or similar architecture.

Illustrated in a computer software system is provided for directing the operation of the data processing system . Software system which is stored in system memory and on disk memory includes a kernel or operating system and a shell or interface . One or more application programs such as application software may be loaded i.e. transferred from storage into memory for execution by the data processing system . The data processing system receives user commands and data through user interface these inputs may then be acted upon by the data processing system in accordance with instructions from operating module and or application module .

The interface which is preferably a graphical user interface GUI also serves to display results whereupon the user may supply additional inputs or terminate the session. In an embodiment operating system and interface can be implemented in the context of a Windows system. Application module on the other hand can include instructions such as the various operations described herein with respect to respective to the various components and modules depicted in .

In the depicted example server and server connect to network along with storage unit . In addition clients and connect to network . These clients and may be for example personal computers or network computers. Data processing system depicted in can be for example a client such as client and or . Alternatively data processing system can be implemented as a server such as servers and or depending upon design considerations.

In the depicted example server provides data such as boot files operating system images and applications to clients and . Clients and are clients to server in this example. Network data processing system may include additional servers clients and other devices not shown. Specifically clients may connect to any member of a network of servers which provide equivalent content.

In the depicted example network data processing system is the Internet with network representing a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. At the heart of the Internet is a backbone of high speed data communication lines between major nodes or host computers consisting of thousands of commercial government educational and other computer systems that route data and messages. Of course network data processing system also may be implemented as a number of different types of networks such as for example an intranet a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN . is intended as an example and not as an architectural limitation for different embodiments of the present invention.

The following description is presented with respect to embodiments of the present invention which can be embodied in the context of a data processing system such as data processing system computer software system and data processing system and network depicted respectively . The present invention however is not limited to any particular application or any particular environment. Instead those skilled in the art will find that the system and methods of the present invention may be advantageously applied to a variety of system and application software including database management systems word processors and the like. Moreover the present invention may be embodied on a variety of different platforms including Macintosh UNIX LINUX and the like. Therefore the description of the exemplary embodiments which follows is for purposes of illustration and not considered a limitation.

The community portal can serve as a navigational registry for mashup applications such as applications and e.g. App and App respectively that have been created by community participants These mashup application are generally composed Widgets that may be governed by pre negotiated agreements defined in and interpreted for system by the Market Manager . Community Portal can also include specialized feature enriched GUI views into system . A Mashup Assembler and Mashup Enabler views are reflected by configurations and respectively. For example a mashup assembler may have access to a Mashup Maker but not content extraction and aggregation tools which may be more appropriately associated with a mashup enabler view. Community Portal can also provide a GUI interface to a Mashup Application Catalogue for all participants in the community. Finally the portal can typically include an administration GUI . In order to run mashup applications such as and which may be registered by mashup assemblers within the application catalogue the portal also preferably includes or has access to a Mashup Runtime Environment to enable the processing of mashups created with the Mashup Maker . Application e.g. App depicts such an example.

The portal can also provide output via a publishing protocol or interface for the Mashup Application Catalogue . System further includes a Widget Server that communicates with a Market Manager i.e. a management module which in turn can receive data from the administrator of the community portal . Note that the Widget Server can be a server such as for example server and or server depicted in . Additionally a Web feed such as ATOM feed may be implemented with respect to the widget server and the Market Manager . Note that an ATOM Feed is based on the term ATOM or Atom which applies to a pair of related standards. The Atom Syndication Format is an XML language used for web feeds while the Atom Publishing Protocol referred to as AtomPub for short is a simple HTTP based protocol for creating and updating Web resources. The Atom Publishing Protocol APP is an application level protocol for publishing and editing Web resources. The protocol is based on HTTP transport of Atom formatted representations.

Web feeds allow software programs to check for updates published on a web site. To provide a web feed a site owner may use specialized software such as a content management system that publishes a list or feed of recent articles or content in a standardized machine readable format. The feed can then be downloaded by web sites that syndicate content from the feed or by feed reader programs that allow Internet users to subscribe to feeds and view their content. A feed for example contains entries which may be headlines full text articles excerpts summaries and or links to content on a web site along with various metadata. Arrow in thus refers to such a web feed. Note that in Real time provisioning is generally represented in by arrow .

Mashups as well as the widgets they contain are all software components e.g. application module that can be managed within a SaaS environment. While these widget components are more granular than a traditional SaaS application they are consumable assets nonetheless. Given a mashup maker technology such as for example QEDWiki it is possible to demonstrate how QEDWiki Mashups and Widgets can be managed within a metering environment for a SaaS Service Provider.

In the mashup ecosystem a Service Provider of a Mashup Delivery Community Portal such as community portal depicted in must consider a number of use cases associated with the various roles within the community. For example in such a community the Service Provider offers of a number of functions such as for example provisioning and description of application offerings registration and consumption of application offerings metering of application utilization utilization reporting and registering of rating models per application offering. Another role in such a community is the Content Provider which also features provisioning and description of application offerings along with utilizing reporting and registration of rating models per application offering. Such a community also generally includes a Content Consumer which features the presentment of application and rating model offerings subscription of application offerings and the consumption of applications.

These embodiments discussed herein thus address the Market Manager component of a MDCP. This market manager component allows two entities e.g. a producer and a consumer to describe their bartering arrangement to a system such as for example systems and . For example a Service Provider and a Widget Content Provider WCP can be configured with the ability to describe to the MDCP their out of band negotiations.

Let us assume for example that Bob is a WCP and Jane is the Service Provider SP . Bob owns 3 Widgets for which he will host externally on an instance of a Widget Server that he maintains on his domain server. Bob normally provides access to these Widgets for a fee of 50 cents per transaction. However since Jane has created a marketplace for the consumption of mashups and widgets Jane is willing to sell access to Bob at a discounted rate based in blocks for usage units transactions . They decide a priori of any activity with the Market Manager that Jane will pay Bob 24 cents a usage unit for a block of 1000 units and 20 cents for any 100 unit block increments thereafter.

The payment or billing of this activity is considered out of band to the MDCP. Bob and Jane agree that they will use the Market Manager to audit Bob s usage and purchase commitments. Based on the agreements between Bob and Jane Bob s Widget Server e.g. see server in can export via an Atom see glossary feed e.g. see arrow in the three remote widgets as part of Jane s widget portfolio. Bartering within the system does not have to be currency based. The Market Manager should be flexible enough to allow for the producer and consumer to trade on credit. For example consider a trade arrangement where a Frank a WCP offers George a WCP 2500 usage units of his widget in return for an equal 2500 units of George s widget. In this scenario Jane the SP is basically a conduit for the George and Frank. In her capacity of SP she may require the WCPs George and Frank to pay an infrastructure conduit tax for such an arrangement. In effect the Market Manager would need to capture the following information 

Upon confirmation from the transaction between WCPFrank and WCPGeorge the system credits the account for SPJane with 480 units of Widget 3 and 240 units of Widget 2 . She can now sell these units to other consumers in the MDCP.

The Market Manager serves two purposes. First the Market Manager can provide a browser based user interface for members of the MDCP to enter and describe business arrangements to the system . Second the Market Manager can provide an interface to an external system that is responsible for reporting utilization metrics to community participants. This programmable interface would allow such an external system component to calculate account balances for each community participate based on the content supplied to the Market Manager .

The Market Manager as described herein can actually be implemented using technology such as for example IBM s QEDWiki technology as the Mashup Maker and a Software as a Service SaaS Utilization Management software. For example by integrating these two assets to create an MDCP a Service Provider can then host a complete Mashup Enablement Environment for community participants. Such integration would require the inclusion of the Market Manager .

Note that as utilized herein SaaS Software as a Service generally refers to a software application delivery model where a software vendor develops a web native software application and hosts and operates either independently or through a third patty the application for use by its customers over the Internet. Customers do not pay for owning the software itself but rather for using it. They use it through an API Application Protocol Interface accessible over the Web and often written using Web Services REST or WSDL . The term SaaS has become the industry preferred term generally replacing the earlier terms Application Service Provider ASP On Demand and Utility computing .

In the case where two organizations seek to integrate their respective technologies e.g. Mashup Maker Widget Server and Community Portal one party s focus and expertise may be exclusively on assisting service providers deliver software as a service to their SMB customers. Their products include self service provisioning management and billing mediation for Service providers seeking to host manage and meter software applications. Their end to end virtualization management solution can be adapted to manage the utilization of mashups and the widgets they consume.

In order to support the utilization management of mashups modifications to a Hosting Business Suite for example must include changes to the offering and publishing workflow elements of their current solution. Additionally Mashup Maker QEDWiki described earlier would need to be provisioned as an application that can run in a Virtualized Data Center VDC such as VDC of and comply with the offering and publishing use cases of the desired solution. A missing component in this integration is the Market Manager .

It should be understood that at least some aspects of the present invention may alternatively be implemented in a computer useable medium that contains a program product. For example the processes and functionalities of blocks and so forth as depicted in can be implemented in the context of such a program product. Programs defining functions on the present invention can be delivered to a data storage system or a computer system via a variety of signal bearing media which include without limitation non writable storage media e.g. CD ROM writable storage media e.g. hard disk drive read write CD ROM optical media system memory such as but not limited to Random Access Memory RAM and communication media such as computer and telephone networks including Ethernet the Internet wireless networks and like network systems. It should be understood therefore that such signal bearing media when carrying or encoding computer readable instructions that direct method functions in the present invention represent alternative embodiments of the present invention. Further it is understood that the present invention may be implemented by a system having means in the form of hardware software or a combination of software and hardware as described herein or their equivalent.

Thus the various components and modules described and illustrated herein with respect to can be deployed as process software in the context of a computer system or data processing system such as system depicted in and or system and network of .

While the present invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Furthermore as used in the specification and the appended claims the term computer or computer system or computer system or computing device includes any data processing system including but not limited to personal computers servers workstations network computers main flame computers routers switches Personal Digital Assistants PDA s telephones and any other system capable of processing transmitting receiving capturing and or storing data.

It will be appreciated that variations of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Also that various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

