---

title: Context-appropriate answering responses for a mobile communications device
abstract: Embodiments provide an apparatus, a system, a device, a computer program product, and a method. A method embodiment provides method implemented in a mobile communications device. The method includes determining an ambient environmental context of the mobile communications device. The method also includes selecting an answer to an incoming-communication that is at least substantially responsive to the determined environmental context of the mobile communications device. The method further includes facilitating a delivery of the selected answer in reply to an incoming communication to the mobile communications device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08229403&OS=08229403&RS=08229403
owner: The Invention Science Fund I, LLC
number: 08229403
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070927
---
An embodiment provides method implemented in a mobile communications device. The method includes determining an ambient environmental context of the mobile communications device. The method also includes selecting an answer to an incoming communication that is at least substantially responsive to the determined environmental context of the mobile communications device. The method further includes facilitating a delivery of the selected answer in reply to an incoming communication to the mobile communications device. In an alternative embodiment the method may include receiving an indication of the incoming communication to the mobile communications device. In another embodiment the method may include acquiring data indicative of the ambient environmental context of the mobile communications device. In a further embodiment the method may include providing a user understandable indication of the determined ambient environmental context of the mobile communications device. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a handheld mobile communications device. The handheld mobile communications device includes a circumstance analyzer circuit operable to determine an ambient surrounding of the handheld mobile communications device. The handheld mobile communications device also includes a response circuit operable to facilitate a delivery of a chosen reply to an originator of an incoming communication. The handheld mobile communications device further includes an answer selector circuit operable to choose the reply to the incoming communication that is at least substantially responsive to the determined ambient surrounding of the handheld mobile communications device. In an alternative embodiment the handheld mobile communications device includes a transceiver circuit operable to transmit and or receive communications. In addition to the foregoing other device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides a computer program product. The computer program product includes a computer readable signal bearing medium bearing program instructions. The program instructions include program instructions operable to perform a process in a mobile communications device. The process includes determining an ambient environmental context of the mobile communications device. The process also includes selecting an answer to an incoming communication that is at least substantially responsive to the determined environmental context of the mobile communications device. The process further includes facilitating a delivery of the selected answer in reply to an incoming communication to the mobile communications device. In addition to the foregoing other computer program product embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a mobile communications device. The mobile communications device includes means for determining an ambient environmental context of the mobile communications device. The mobile communications device also include means for selecting an answer to an incoming communication that is at least substantially responsive to the determined environmental context of the mobile communications device. The mobile communications device further includes means for facilitating a delivery of the selected answer in reply to an incoming communication to the mobile communications device. In addition to the foregoing other device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a method implemented in a computing system providing a mobile communications service. The method includes receiving data indicative of an environmental context of a mobile communications device. The method also includes receiving an indication of an incoming communication addressed to the mobile communications device and originating from another communications device. The method further includes selecting a reply to the incoming communication that is consistent with the environmental context of the mobile communications device. The method also includes facilitating a delivery of the selected reply to the another communications device. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrated embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a number of switches and buttons illustrated as hardware buttons connected to the system via a suitable interface . Input devices may further include a touch sensitive display screen with suitable input detection circuitry . The output circuitry of the touch sensitive display is connected to the system bus via a video driver . Other input devices may include a microphone connected through a suitable audio interface and a physical hardware keyboard not shown . In addition to the display the computing device may include other peripheral output devices such as at least one speaker .

Other external input or output devices such as a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like may be connected to the processing unit through a USB port and USB port interface to the system bus . Alternatively the other external input and output devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or other port. The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting to a flash card memory not shown through an appropriate connection port not shown . The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting with a network through a network port and network interface and through wireless port and corresponding wireless interface may be provided to facilitate communication with other peripheral devices including other computers printers and so on not shown . It will be appreciated that the various components and connections shown are exemplary and other components and means of establishing communications links may be used.

The computing device may be primarily designed to include a user interface. The user interface may include a character a key based and or another user data input via the touch sensitive display . The user interface may include using a stylus not shown . Moreover the user interface is not limited to an actual touch sensitive panel arranged for directly receiving input but may alternatively or in addition respond to another input device such as the microphone . For example spoken words may be received at the microphone and recognized. Alternatively the computing device may be designed to include a user interface having a physical keyboard not shown .

The device functional elements are typically application specific and related to a function of the electronic device and is coupled with the system bus through an interface not shown . The functional elements may typically perform a single well defined task with little or no user configuration or setup such as a refrigerator keeping food cold a cell phone connecting with an appropriate tower and transceiving voice or data information and a camera capturing and saving an image.

The computing system environment typically includes a variety of computer readable media products. Computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not of limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media and communications media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . In a further embodiment a computer storage media may include a group of computer storage media devices. In another embodiment a computer storage media may include an information store. In another embodiment an information store may include a quantum memory a photonic quantum memory and or atomic quantum memory. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Communications media may typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media include wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF optical and infrared media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A RAM may include at least one of a DRAM an EDO DRAM a SDRAM a RDRAM a VRAM and or a DDR DRAM. A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Often the operating system offers services to applications programs by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown . Because the operating system incorporates these services developers of applications programs need not redevelop code to use the services. Examples of APIs provided by operating systems such as Microsoft s WINDOWS are well known in the art.

The computing device may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media products. By way of example only illustrates a non removable non volatile memory interface hard disk interface that reads from and writes for example to non removable non volatile magnetic media. also illustrates a removable non volatile memory interface that for example is coupled to a magnetic disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk and or is coupled to an optical disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM. Other removable nonremovable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes memory cards flash memory cards DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as the interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from the operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a microphone keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish and scanner. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system environment may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The network logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN and may also include other networks such as a personal area network PAN not shown . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a networking environment the computing system environment is connected to the network through a network interface such as the network interface the modem and or the wireless interface . The network may include a LAN network environment and or a WAN network environment such as the Internet. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on computer storage medium . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing communications link between the computers may be used.

In an embodiment the mobile communications device includes a context determining circuit an answer selector circuit and an answering circuit . In some embodiments one or more of the context determining circuit the answer selector circuit and the answering circuit may be structurally distinct from the remaining circuits. In an embodiment the mobile communications device or a portion of the mobile communications device may be implemented in whole or in part using the thin computing device described in conjunction with and or the computing device described in conjunction with . In another embodiment the mobile communications device or a portion of the mobile communications device may be implemented using Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. In a further embodiment one or more of the circuits and or the machine may be implemented in hardware software and or firmware. A person may interact with the mobile communications device via a user interface and or a display . The display may include a visual display provided by a display surface and or an audio display provided by a speaker.

The mobile communications device may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include a transceiver circuit an incoming communication indicator circuit or a context data acquisition circuit . In addition the mobile communications device may include a processor not illustrated such as the processing unit described in conjunction with and or the processor described in conjunction with . In further addition the mobile communications device may include a computer storage media not illustrated . The computer storage media may include a computer storage media operable to store at least two answers to an incoming communication that are at least substantially responsive to a determined environmental context of the mobile communications device. In an embodiment the mobile communications device may include a handheld mobile communications device.

Also illustrated is another mobile communications device that may be used by another person user to communicate with the person user via the mobile communications device .

In an embodiment the context determining circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include at least one of a context inferring circuit a locational context determining circuit a sound context determining circuit a user input independent context determining circuit a situational context determining circuit a device specific circuit an externally imposed context determining circuit or a user selected state determining circuit .

In another embodiment the answer selector circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include at least one of a communications type answer selector circuit an appropriate answer selector circuit or an answer picker circuit . In a further embodiment the answering circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include at least one of an answer timing circuit a voice call answering circuit or an originator answering circuit .

After a start operation the operational flow includes a context operation . The context operation determines an ambient environmental context of the mobile communications device. In an embodiment the ambient environmental context of the mobile communications device is determined in response to real time data that is at least in part indicative of the current ambient environmental context of the mobile communications device. In another embodiment the ambient environmental context of the mobile communications device is determined in response to currently sensed data that is at least in part indicative of the current ambient environmental context of the mobile communications device. In a further embodiment the ambient environmental context of the mobile communications device is determined in response to currently observed data that is at least in part indicative of the current ambient environmental context of the mobile communications device. The context operation may be implemented using the context determining circuit of . A choosing operation selects an answer to an incoming communication that is at least substantially responsive to the determined environmental context of the mobile communications device. In an embodiment the answer to an incoming communication that is at least substantially responsive to the determined environmental context of the mobile communications device may be selected from at least two answers. In another embodiment the selected answer to an incoming communication that is at least substantially responsive to the determined environmental context of the mobile communications device may be formulated from at least two answers. The choosing operation may be implemented using the answer selector circuit . A contextual reply operation facilitates a delivery of the selected answer in reply to an incoming communication to the mobile communications device. The contextual reply operation may be implemented using the answering circuit . The operational flow then moves to an end operation.

The operation determines a situational context of the mobile communications device. For example a situational context may include at least one of a movie theater football game lecture meeting or concert situational context. In an embodiment a situational context may be sensed by detecting a presence of a high density of nearby cellular phones. A further detection may include at least one of detecting a regularity of an array of static cellular phones such as in meeting or theater and or an irregularity of an array of moving cellular phone such as in highway traffic. By way of further example a situational context may include a workplace schoolroom courtroom hospital or surgical suite situational context. Another example of a situational context may include at least one of a golf course riding in a car jogging bicycle riding or a particular user activity level situational context. The operation may be implemented using the situational context determining circuit .

The operation determines an ambient environmental context of a mobile communications device. The mobile communications device including at least one of a mobile telecommunications device a handheld mobile communications device a voice enabled mobile communications device an email enabled mobile communications device a text message enabled mobile communications device an instant message enabled mobile communications device an Internet enabled mobile communications device or a video enabled mobile communications device. The operation may be implemented using the device specific circuit . The operation determines a state externally imposed on the mobile communications device. For example an externally imposed ambient environmental context may include an externally imposed rule on the mobile communications device such as the mobile communications device is disabled from ringing by a theater or set to vibrate only in a theater. The operation may be implemented using the externally imposed context determining circuit . The operation determines a user selected state of the mobile communications device. For example a user selected state may include a ring muted or a low volume ring state. The operation may be implemented using the user selected state determining circuit .

The operation selects an answer to an incoming communication that is at least substantially responsive to the determined environment context of the mobile communications device from a group of at least two answers to an incoming communication. For example a selected answer may include Jane is in a theater and should only be disturbed in an emergency. A selected answer to an incoming communication that is at least substantially responsive to the determined environment context of the mobile communications device may include presenting context dependent options to the caller. For example Jane is in a theater and should only be disturbed in an emergency . . . in which case please allow the phone to continue ringing until Jane has time to find a place to answer. Another example includes the phone you are calling is muted or the phone you are calling is set to ring quietly and is in a noisy environment and therefore will likely not be heard. An answer to an incoming communication that is at least substantially responsive to the determined environment context of the mobile communications device may include presenting callers with a device state and or a context dependent option. For example the user of the mobile communications device presses 5 on a keypad when they are temporarily busy or in the middle of something the mobile communications device answers the call with a short message Hold on a minute Jane is in the middle of something but she will be right with you. By way of further example the user pressing 3 on the keypad while driving answers an incoming communication in speakerphone mode but first plays a short answering message I ll be answering your call on speakerphone before automatically answering in speaker phone mode. In another example the user pressing 4 on the keypad while in a movie answers a call with a message I m at the movies so please leave a message unless this is very urgent. If no message is left the mobile communications device would begin ringing with increasing urgency until answered while playing a message to the caller that it may take me some time to pick up as I have to leave the theater and find a private place to take your call. An answer to an incoming communication that is at least substantially responsive to the determined environment context of the mobile communications device may include presenting a selected ring type volume or behavior e.g. increasing ring number of rings before switching to voice mail or forwarding a selected voice mail behavior e.g. selection of a particular voice mailbox etc a selected message a trigger matched to configurations including detected or inferred context e.g. on the road alone at home not in user s presence . The operation may be implemented using the answer picker circuit .

The circumstance analyzer circuit includes a circumstance analyzer circuit operable to determine an ambient surrounding of the handheld mobile communications device . For example an ambient surrounding may include a density of people proximate to the handheld mobile communications device a type of ambient sound proximate to the handheld mobile communications device such as a cheering crowd a loud rock concert a movie or a symphony or an activity pattern of a user associated with the handheld mobile communications device such as an activity pattern associated with riding a bicycle. The response circuit includes a response circuit operable to facilitate a delivery of a chosen reply to an originator of an incoming communication. The answer circuit includes an answer selector circuit operable to choose the reply to the incoming communication that is at least substantially responsive to the determined ambient surrounding of the handheld mobile communications device. The reply may be chosen from replies responsive to a determined ambient surrounding saved to a storage media of the digital storage device .

The transceiver circuit may include a transceiver circuit operable to transmit and or receive communications. In an alternative embodiment the transceiver circuit may include a transceiver circuit operable to transmit and or receive at least one of a voice email data or video communications. In another embodiment the circumstance analyzer circuit further includes a circumstance analyzer circuit operable to determine an ambient surrounding of the handheld mobile communications device. The ambient surrounding including at least one of a locational setting a surrounding sound characteristic a situational context a state of the handheld mobile device or a proximity to other handheld mobile communications devices. In a further embodiment the response circuit further includes a response circuit operable to facilitate a delivery of a chosen reply to an originator of an incoming communication. The facilitation of delivery includes at least one of sending the chosen reply causing a service provider to send the chosen reply or authorizing another communications device to send the chosen reply. In an alternative embodiment the answer selector circuit further includes an answer selector circuit operable to choose reply from among at least two replies to the incoming communication that is at least substantially responsive to the determined ambient surrounding of the handheld mobile communications device.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the systems apparatus devices computer program products and or processes using block diagrams flow diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples. A particular block diagram operation diagram flowchart illustration environment and or example should not be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated therein. For example in certain instances one or more elements of an environment may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added.

Insofar as such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood that each function and or operation within such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof unless otherwise indicated. In an embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of electrical circuitry. Consequently as used herein electrical circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of random access memory and or electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch or optical electrical equipment . Those having skill in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in an analog or digital fashion or some combination thereof.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. .

It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

The herein described aspects depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

