---

title: Method and system for athletic motion analysis and instruction
abstract: A system and method for analyzing and improving the performance of a body motion of an animal or human subject requires instrumenting a subject with inertial sensors, monitoring a body motion of interest, converting sensor data into motion data and animation, comparing the motion data with existing data for motion related performance parameters, providing a real-time, information rich, animation and data display of the results in color coded displays; and based on the results prescribing a training regime with exercises selected from a library of standardized exercises using standardized tools and training aids.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08616989&OS=08616989&RS=08616989
owner: K-Motion Interactive, Inc.
number: 08616989
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070807
---
This application is a continuation of pending U.S. application Ser. No. 11 340 088 filed Jan. 26 2006 which claims priority to U.S. provisional application No. 60 647 751 filed Jan. 26 2005. Each of these applications is herein incorporated in its entirety by reference.

A portion of this patent application including the figures contains material that is subject to copyright protection. Copyright notices may or may not be included in all cases. Reproduction of this material in the form published by a patent office in a jurisdiction in which this application is filed is permitted. All other rights are reserved.

Over the course of time many different techniques have been implemented in order to teach the proper mechanics of various athletic motions including swinging a golf club. Many instructors e.g. golf professionals use a video analysis system to teach a student how to properly swing a golf club. Using a typical video analysis system the student s golf swing is captured by a video recording device. The instructor replays the recorded video information to illustrate the student s golf swing while providing feedback regarding the swing. Instructional feedback may be comments relative to problems associated with the student s swing compliments regarding improvement in the student s swing suggestions on correcting the user s swing or any other verbal instructional comments in context with the student s swing. Visualizing one s personal golf swing in this manner has been recognized as a valuable tool in identifying problems as well as correcting those problems in order to improve the overall golf swing.

Although video analysis systems are widely used by golf professionals these systems have drawbacks. One drawback relates to having a golf professional subjectively analyze the video information. Not only is this analysis subjective and therefore open to interpretation and subject to inaccuracies but also such analysis is exacerbated by the fact that many problems associated with a golf swing are typically not captured by the video recording system given different camera angles too few cameras or loose clothing. Therefore golf professionals are typically forced to guess the problem. Accordingly the advice given by a golf professional may be inaccurate and inconsistent since it is difficult to isolate mechanics and measurements of the swing on video.

In order to overcome the drawbacks associated with typical video analysis systems instructors have adopted motion or position analysis systems as an aid to analysis and instruction. Since the 1970 s universities and private research foundations have studied human motion using techniques that allow two dimensional film or videotape to be processed into three dimensional data. Progress had been made in characterizing the properties of human motion biomechanics from the simple measurements of displacement velocity and acceleration to the more complicated measurements of force and torque stress . Although the scientific community has taken steps towards understanding human motion and its effects upon the musculosketal system very little of this information has been applied to the clinical area where a patient can directly benefit.

Current motion analysis systems require that the student athlete to wear sensor elements on their body and the sensor elements transmit positional data of isolated body parts such as hands hips shoulders and head. The isolated points on the body are measured during a swing in accordance with an absolute reference system e.g. a Cartesian coordinate system wherein the center point is a fixed point in the room. By using motion analysis exact measurements are provided from which an instructor can more accurately determine problems in a student s swing. Even though motion analysis provides accurate positional data of the student s swing it is not in and of itself particularly useful since it gives no visual aid as to where the problems may really be. When used by itself the motion analysis system is not an effective teaching tool since the instructor is only provided with numbers and not a visualization of what the student is doing wrong. Some motion analysis systems provide animation that depicts elements of a golf swing based upon captured data. However the animation is crude and doesn t show the golfer what he she looks like during a swing.

Consequently motion analysis systems are used with video analysis systems in order to try to overcome the problems associated with each system as it is used independently of the other. The instructor may use the motion capture data and subjectively map the information to the video data. Although this provides more specific data to the instructor it is associated with at least one significant problem. The instructor while viewing the video must estimate the swing positions corresponding to the data points from the motion analysis information. Analysis of the swing requires not only considerable effort but also a significant amount of estimation in associating the positional data points with an associated position on the student s swing.

Moreover the systems for providing the video analysis are separate from the systems that provide motion capture information such that the instructor must manipulate numerous controls for displaying to the student the various positional measurement values as well as for providing separate video replays.

With respect to golf and the golf swing some systems have been developed to respond to the needs of both the self taught player and the professionally taught player. Examples of such systems are 1 the Sportech Golf Swing Analyzer and WAVI system both manufactured by Sports Technology Inc. of Essex Conn. 2 BioVision manufactured by Optimum Human Performance Centers Inc. of Menlo Park Calif. 3 the Pro Grafix System manufactured by GolfTek of Lewiston Id. and 4 the Swing Motion Trainer manufactured by Sport Sense of Mountain View Calif.

Other prior art teaches for example a system where a golfer wears a number of reflective tapes at various places on his or her body. While the player swings the club a TV camera captures the motion of the golfer through the motion of the reflective tape. The image of the motion is digitized and the two dimensional coordinates of the reflective tapes are calculated. The calculated coordinates are then manipulated in various ways to analyze the golfer s swing. For example the coordinates can be used to construct a moving stick figure representing the golfer s swing.

Another system discloses a video device and method which detects the club head velocity via a colored club head and color detection unit. The club head velocity is then displayed in analog or digital form. A series of swings can then be analyzed by comparing the relative club head velocities for different club swings.

Yet another system provides a video system which displays a live video signal of a golfer s swinging motion for the golfer to see while swinging. A series of video overlays can be imposed upon the video signal for reference and analysis purposes.

There is an apparatus and method which uses a computer to produce a series of still images from a videotape of a golfer s swing. The still images are then overlaid with a series of corrected images which include lines depicting proper form. The result is then augmented with further visual or audio information and recorded onto another tape for viewing and analysis.

A golf practice apparatus provides recording and instant playback of video images of a golfer s swing. An infrared camera and flash unit are used to obtain snapshot images of the clubhead and ball just before and after impact. An optical sensor array and processor calculates statistical data on club speed ball speed and ball angle.

What is lacking in the field is an athletic motion analysis apparatus and method which is capable of capturing and plotting the total motion of a user with sufficient data to reduce analyze report on and present the component parts of the motion and the degree of coordination of the component parts as feedback to the user in such a way as to optimize his assimilation and understanding of the information further to provide a comparative study of the component parts of the user s performance as to its own prior test results or the performance of other persons or other benchmark values and further to provide a related prescription of specific exercises tailored to the user s level of performance areas of deficiency and available time for improving his or her skill level through practice of training exercises.

For example as a golf swing is executed the golfer rotates among other things the hips shoulders and arms in a sequential and yet coordinated fashion. To maximize energy in the swing the golfer must smoothly transfer energy from the feet to the hips to the shoulders to the arms and hence to the club culminating at the time and point of impact with the ball. What is needed is a system and method of motion capture and data processing with specialized software to process this data and generate a coordinated multiple format presentation to the user which will effectively demonstrate the most efficient kinetic link between the golfer s motion segments and prescribe exercises likely to improve the user s performance.

A kinetic link in the context of the invention is a chain of interdependent components of motion acting towards a common goal the effective and efficient execution of the motion. This kinetic link principle is applicable to all dynamic athletic type body motions intended to perform work or convert or transfer energy in any manner by means of bodily exertion with or without the use of a hand or foot actuated or operated tool or article of sporting equipment. For example in a golf swing motion the process of striking a golf ball with a golf club the kinetic link is composed of four principle components of the motion with three links. These four components and three links in combination represent the full motion of the body. The components consist of the hip segment shoulder segment arm segment and the club. The links include the musculature found between each body segment. Since the frame of reference and the point from which this type of motion must be leveraged is the ground itself a complete analysis of the motion must consider the feet first then overall posture then hips then shoulders then arms then club and finally the ball. A weakness at any point in the kinetic link results in a less than optimal total performance. Means of identifying and improving the component parts of the motion will improve the overall performance. This assumption is at the foundation of the present invention.

The invention in the broadest sense may be a global knowledge based enterprise system and method for providing performance testing and training regimes to persons for whom athletic activities such as golfing and others for whom repetitive athletic motions are an inherent part of their normal work or recreational activities for improving the effectiveness of their golf swing or other specific athletic motion.

A typical example of the system and method uses state of the art technology and equipment for instrumenting a user or subject and monitoring a motion draws upon and contributes to a vast library of performance data for analysis of the test results provides an information rich graphic display of the results in multiple synchronized formats for user viewing and or monitoring by a coach or system operator and based on the results prescribes a user specific training regime with exercises selected from a library of standardized exercises using standardized tools and training aids.

Users and their coaches may access the library of performance data to see and compare a user s most recent test performance to its own or other testees prior test results. After an appropriate amount of off line exercising and or at the desire of the user or coach the testing is repeated. The specifics of the prescribed training are re calculated and may include a weighted consideration of the current performance testing result in addition to prior test results. The performance reports provide an objective record of the type and degree of changes in performance that the user has experienced.

The system may be employed during live practice sessions to provide essentially instant or real time visual and or auditory biofeedback or provide replay presentations of each successive attempt at a particular drill or a full motion. Deviations in specific parameters from the objectives of the prescribed drills are reported and the user has the immediate opportunity to respond to the feedback and reduce the deviation of the specific parameter during an immediate next attempt at the same drill.

In one embodiment the invention is a local system or method for golf swing motion analysis of a golfer intended to improve the golfer s performance by repetitive use. The invention includes the use of multiple body and or tool mounted sensors wired or wireless transmission of sensor data in real time to a receiver computer and database system for data processing and analysis along with a video and or audio recording input of the test. Results are instantly generated by the system consisting of associated forms of biofeedback including graphical representations of coordinated and comparative data output on components of the full motion along with animations of the motion generated from the motion data and actual video of the motion. The three forms of feedback are combined in their presentation for ready assimilation and understanding by the golfer and or instructor in either an immediate form to enable sequential monitored attempts with intermediate feedback or a later feedback mode with an extended period for practice of prescribed drills intended to improve aspects of the motion.

The analysis reduces the full motion to predetermined major component motions. The coordinated data output portion of the results may represent the relative timing and amplitude of components of the user s own motion. The comparative data output may represent a comparison of the relative timing and amplitude of components of the user s motion to the same components of an expert or other standard performance data from the system database or the user s own prior test performance data. The data processing and biofeedback may further include prescriptions from a database of standard exercises tailored according to the user s level of performance and time available for training on a component of motion basis such as stance balance hip motion and shoulder and arm motion adjusted according to the user s actual performance data. The exercises may prescribe or presume the use of specialized tools and training aids from among a library of pre determined tools and training aids during the exercises.

As described above the data input analysis and the biofeedback report is preferably augmented by use of video audio and other recording devices emplaced and focused to capture additional motion data at a desired direction from the user under test and processed to provide additional graphical video audio or other form of output that can be integrated with the data output for optimal user understanding and assimilation of the analysis and report.

The system and method in local or global embodiments may be applied to other athletic or occupational motions by which energy is transformed through user motion into work of any type for improving performance preventing injury and or providing a rehabilitation program.

A set of inertial motion sensors are attachable to the user s body and or motion tool or device such as a golf club at strategic points by the use of specially designed appliances. Each motion sensor contains a multi element sensing system and circuitry for sensing and reporting three dimensional position and attitude of the sensor transmitting a real time output of vector data for further application specific processing. One embodiment of the multi element sensing system within the motion sensor includes three gyroscopic inertial sensors three accelerometers and three magnometers as is produced by InterSense Inc. of Bedford Mass. Motion data is typically updated at a rate of 120 Hertz from a system employing three motion sensors although systems with fewer and more motion sensors and with faster and slower position update rates are within the scope of the invention.

The vector data from the full set of motion sensors is sufficient data from which to derive and characterize the principle components of a golf swing or other athletic motion as is further described below. The information is transmitted in near real time directly from each sensor individually or via a common transmitter to which some or all the sensors may be hard wired to a nearby receiver and hence to a processing computer for application specific data processing and analysis and generation of data and graphical output reports representing the user s performance as is further described below.

The processing computer can perform relational calculations on the data received from the various sensors thereby allowing computation of various application related parameters of interest. As an example the processing computer with its golf specific software can calculate club face angle or the angle through which the golfer turns his or her shoulders while swinging the golf club. Such parameters are referred to here as performance parameters. 

In a golf swing motion analysis system in particular inertial sensor data is typically processed into the following parameters relating to the golfer s body performance hip velocity degrees per second hip rotation degrees negative and positive shoulder velocity degrees per second shoulder rotation degrees negative and positive club release degrees per second club speed miles per hour club face rotation degrees open closed club path degrees inside or outside of club s address position hip linear movement centimeters left or right of neutral address hip shoulder separation time difference between maximum hip shoulder and club velocity flexion extension of hip segment centimeters traveled along z axis and kinetic link. These parameters are further extrapolated to yield a predicted ball in flight resulting performance of parameters spin degrees per second launch angle degrees carry distance roll distance yards total distance yards distance traveled off line yards right or left ball flight character fade draw hook slice push pull straight and PTI or power transfer index.

The processing computer can also display information about the swing that will allow the golfer or his instructor to visualize and adjust the swing. For example in one aspect the system displays live video feed of the golfer obtained through a video feed from a video camera critically positioned adjacent to the golfer and coupled wirelessly or otherwise to the processing computer an animated simplification of the same motion generated from motion data and statistics reporting the state of the various parameters in any given freeze frame. The system can also display the results of the various calculations of performance parameters as described in the previous paragraph which characterize the swing over time for example the system can display data regarding the club face angle or the angle through which the shoulders rotate during a particular swing.

A system interface between the processing computer and the golfer in the form of a control or feedback module mounted on or near the instrumented golfer can provide instructions to the golfer in preparation for or in response to a particular attempted golf swing. The system interface may instruct the golfer for example to address the ball give a five second window for the golfer to initiate a swing etc. Such instructions may in one embodiment be in the form of audible beeps or synthetic speech or pre recorded voice commands. Colored lamps or a backlit LCD or other type visual signal display can also issue coded or alphanumeric instructions. Such functions are useful in securing specific and timely inputs needed to calibrate the sensors for absolute position as well as to coordinate the orderly sequencing or progress of a testing session.

In one response mode the system can be characterized as operating in a biofeedback mode where the processing computer through the system interface assists the golfer in following prescribed exercises described in more detail below . In that mode the processing computer can also display on its display unit or screen to the golfer and or his instructor one or more calculated performance parameters and video images of the golfer. Calculated diagnostic parameters of interest can be reported on the screen stored for later analysis or converted into success or failure codes which can be transmitted back to the golfer and or his instructor or any combination of those actions.

Codes transmitted as biofeedback to the golfer may be in the form of a tone or a color that differs between a successful swing and an unsuccessful swing. For example if the system is programmed and set up for training the golfer in a set of exercises where the golfer tries to rotate the shoulders through exactly 40 degrees from vertical the system as through a control module can alert the golfer through tones or lights or changing colors within the graphic display screen when the swing differs from the ideal rotation angle by more than a predetermined error. For example only if the rotation angle falls between 35 45 degrees will the swing be considered a success. The tones or changing lights may have several bands or ranges allowing intermediate or scaled results. For example a red light might follow a swing in which a diagnostic parameter badly diverged from ideal a yellow light might follow a swing in which the same diagnostic parameter only somewhat diverged from ideal and a green light might follow a swing in which the same diagnostic parameter diverged from ideal by less than the pre assigned margin of error. The signal light may be the background color of an animation. The information conveyed by the changing color of the selected illuminated portion of a screen may be likewise presented with same or more or less detail in other audio textual numerical and or graphical formats including numbers bar graphs line graphs and text messages. Oral callouts may be used in combination or in the alternative.

The feedback report may also be continuous or highly differentiated for example the length of an audible tone might correspond to the extent to which the diagnostic parameter diverged from ideal and the golfer is instructed to practice until the tone shortens or disappears. The number of blinks of a light light color sound frequency sound volume tone length and tone type are among the characteristics that can be used in the feedback mode. The audio format feedback information can be produced with synthesized voice output from a speaker or earphones.

The processing computer and system interface also can include monitoring by a golf professional or other motion expert or instructor directly or remotely as through an internet connection and allow him or her to transmit to the golfer instructions to initiate cease or control exercises through instructor command inputs to the system or received by the system from a remote location such as through an internet connection.

After computation of the various golf related parameters of interest those diagnostic parameters can be utilized by indexing a cross reference table of test results and exercises to automatically prescribe to the golfer an assignment of appropriate individualized exercises to improve his or her swing. In a one embodiment each calculated diagnostic parameter is divided into two three or more ranges with each range corresponding to a prescribed action with respect to a particular exercise. For example a first range for a particular diagnostic parameter can result in a prescription of a certain exercise a second range of the same parameter can result in a different prescription and a third range of the same parameter can result in no prescribed exercise because the golfer does not have a problem with the particular aspect of the swing that the parameter measures. The different prescription in each example can be for example a specific different number of repetitions of a given exercise a different priority level given to a given exercise see next paragraph for priority levels a different exercise tool or accessory being used for a given exercise or an entirely different exercise. Further the frequency and duration of the exercises may be apportioned by the prescription compiler in accordance with the golfer s available time and schedule as it was previously inputted to the system by the golfer.

Alternatively the prescriptions may result from combinations of results from two or more diagnostic parameters. In variations the knowledge base may include rules developed through expert interviews automated analysis techniques based on measured results produced by the swing or principles of fuzzy logic. In one embodiment the diagnostic parameters produce exercise prescriptions with assigned priority levels. For example if a particular golfer s swing produces one diagnostic parameter that is very far from ideal while other diagnostic parameters diverge from ideal only partly the first diagnostic parameter will be assigned a higher priority level than the others. For another example if two diagnostic parameters diverge from ideal but one is considered more important to a good golf swing or alternatively one is considered important to control to provide a good foundation for the other then that one will be assigned a higher priority level than the other.

In one embodiment each prescribed training exercise is assigned a priority level from one to nine and several exercises may be assigned a common priority level. In that embodiment the golfer or the instructor can indicate by input to the computer how much time the golfer has available to perform the exercises and based on that information the system can recommend which ones to perform. For example if an athletic motion analysis system projects a need for three exercises with a priority level of one five exercises given priority level two and four other exercises with higher priorities and if each exercise has been determined to require at least fifteen minutes to perform for reasonable effectiveness and the golfer has a limited time for exercise then the system might assign or prescribe accordingly. As specific examples if the golfer indicates that he has one hour available the assignment may be performing only the three priority one exercises for twenty minutes each. If the golfer has two hours available the system might prescribe performing all priority one and all priority two exercises for fifteen minutes each. If the golfer has three hours available the system might assign all exercises for fifteen minutes each. The minimum times to perform each different exercise might vary the time recommended to perform any particular exercise might vary or be fixed and the gradations of priority can be changed as desired.

The diagnostic parameters can also or alternatively be used to prescribe select or fit golf equipment to the golfer such as golf clubs or golf shoes from among one of several types or customized versions having particular measured parameters. For example the length lie angle loft or weight of a particular type of golf club can be selected based on analysis of the diagnostic parameters calculated for the golfer preferably in combination with parameters about the golfer such as his or her height hand length and foot size.

In another aspect parameters calculated at time of impact such as position and orientation of the club face relative to the ball and velocity vector and face angle of the club can be used to predict the forces on the ball and thus predict its trajectory. Knowledge of the terrain can allow determination of the distance and path of the struck golf ball or alternatively the calculation can predict distance assuming the terrain is flat. Such predictions based purely on force calculations can be supplemented with information about the behavior of the ball in atmosphere such as through testing of particular types of golf balls to adjust for air resistance. In a further variation wind direction and velocity can be taken into account with such data input into the system manually or through an electronic anemometer or local air data station coupled to the system electrically or via an internet or wireless connection.

The system may be remotely or locally controlled so that an off site or on site instructor may direct the operation of the system or monitor the results. In a purely user contained mode control inputs for set up and testing operations may be entered test exercises performed and swing data viewed and reviewed by a user with the aid of a personal control module and data monitoring system such as a belt worn control display unit or module.

The methodology and the system are applicable to other repetitive athletic and occupational motions for testing of animals or humans analysis reporting diagnostic review by coaches trainers and or medical personnel or physical therapists with prescriptions being similarly generated for training to improve performance prevent injury or for rehabilitation of various motion capabilities where the motion is susceptible of data collection and reduction into component parts in the manner described above and the report can be presented in a synchronized composite display of animation multiple data tracks and video format.

It is an additional goal that the report and the prescribed regime of practice drills can be taken home as a recording in any useful format or accessed from home through a browser based on line access point connecting to the local system or to a host knowledge based enterprise system to which it is connected for later review and practice.

Therefore the invention in one aspect consists of a method and apparatus for analysis and improvement of a selected athletic motion of an individual consisting the steps of using a computer based motion analysis system that has a processing computer inertial sensors a video camera which may be of any analog or digital technology and a computer driven display screen testing an individual doing the athletic motion with a tool if a tool is implied by monitoring the execution of the motion with multiple inertial sensors mounted on the individual and optionally on the tool with the video camera or cameras directed at the individual in action. The athletic motion might be golf baseball hammering sawing throwing or using other handheld tools or sports equipment a small sampling of which may include balls bats rackets clubs paddles oars spears hammers screwdrivers staple guns darts horseshoes and axes and others. It extends to running kicking jumping pedaling and other foot leg athletic motions using foot actuated tools and sports equipment including bicycles balls and foot operated levers and other tools and objects.

The video camera when used is carefully positioned in advance to insure precise alignment with the individual under test and useful points of reference for measurement and analysis of the motion. The sensors are carefully positioned with the use of body wearable appliances to insure that sensor data will reflect body motion accurately. Sensor data is collected from the sensors and video signal from the camera during the execution of the athletic motion and the sensor data is analyzed by processing the sensor data into motion data representing pre defined selected performance parameters of pre defined selected components of the athletic motion as may be accomplished by or attributable to specific or distinctive body segments such as the leg hip shoulder neck head arm and hand aspects of a motion. The results of the analyzing is reported or presented in a form that includes a real time computer generated display of multiple selectable configurations one of which includes in a composite synchronized combination of the video signal as a video display a multi color three dimensional animation representing the motion of at least one color coded body segment created from the motion data and a time based graph of multiple selected performance parameters.

There may be provision for setting a range of motion limit for selected components of motion such as a specific bending or flexing component of the motion in advance of the testing. The animation of the motion may incorporate a three dimensional wire mesh cage or open frame representing the motion limits within which the body segment is visible. The software may provide for altering a selected color within the display upon the occurrence of a motion exceeding the motion limits as a highly visible instant signal to the individual that the limit has been reached or exceeded. Stepped levels of indication of approaching or exceeding pre set limits may be used by using multiple color changes such as from green to orange to red.

The analysis may include for selected parameters comparing the motion data test value to a pre defined benchmark value for the same parameter and determining a degree of deviation and presenting on a time based graph the test value and the benchmark value concurrently. The analysis may include calculating from the test values and the benchmark values a score for each selected parameter. It may further include combining the scores of the selected parameters by a pre defined formula so as to yield a single score representing the total performance value of the athletic motion as a kinetic index.

The system and software may include with or follow the report or presentation with a prescription of a regime of training exercises selected from a pre defined list of exercises based on the amount of the deviation from the benchmark values of individual parameters and the exercises may be associated with a pre defined list of training tools. The frequency and length of periods of exercise may be limited by the available training time of the individual as may have been entered into the processing computer ahead of the testing.

The wireless inertial sensors may employ a stacked topology within a sensor enclosure wherein a battery is proximate to and its shape conforms to the bottom of the enclosure and sensor elements and electronic circuitry are positioned over the battery within the enclosure. The sensors may be attached to body appliances that are worn by the individual. The sensors and the appliances may have correspondingly keyed mating structural by which the sensors are uniformly and repeatably attachable to the same place with the same orientation on the appliances.

The results of the analyzing including the motion data and the video data may be stored in a local or remote computer database and made available for later replay locally or via a remote computer or computer network connected or connectible to the processing computer.

The camera may be set up in advance of testing using a reference target or frame placed on the test site so as to define at least one point or line of reference relative to the motion to be tested. The software may be configured for overlaying the video display during a calibration phase with reference points lines or other symbols relating to aspects of the motion such as alignment lines center lines balance points of the starting ending or in motion positions of the testee by which motion can be more critically observed. The effectiveness of the lines and symbols overlaid on the video display may be dependent on correct camera placement prior to testing.

Other and various aspects goals and objectives of the invention will be apparent from the examples and illustrations that follow. Pronouns should be interpreted in all cases to include both genders.

An athletic motion analysis system and method for improving performance according to various aspects of the present invention consists of equipment and methods including cameras inertial sensors computers computer networks and software means for providing real time visual feedback in unique formats and prescriptions for practice exercises all as described in the following paragraphs. The invention comprises many embodiments and variations of which the following examples are illustrative and not limiting.

Referring to the steps of one embodiment of the invention are presented in sequence. Test requires that the user subject him or herself to testing by use of the system of the invention while he she conducts an athletic motion of interest. Collect includes the measurement and collection of motion data with inertial sensors a camera and possibly other sensors of the motion executed during the test. Analyze includes analyzing the collected data and includes accessing a database of related data for comparison and for relating types and degrees of deviations in performance from benchmark values to a library of standard exercises for generating prescriptions of appropriate practice exercises or corrective measures. Report includes the generation of a unique display of synchronized video motion animation and data time graphs. Prescribe includes the documentation and delivery of a program or regime of type and time or quantity of performance parameter specific exercises. Finally exercise instructs the user to practice the exercises or corrective measures in accordance with the prescription. The cycle of test collection analysis report prescription and exercise is repeated as often as desired until the desired level of performance is achieved. The type time and level of the prescribed exercises are adjusted automatically up or down according to the most recent performance and or the change in performance between the most recent performance test and prior reported test results.

Referring to the principle components of one embodiment of the system and their relationship is represented in a system diagram where inertial sensors attached to body appliances that are worn by the user communicate by wireless means with a base transceiver which is part of a computer based motion analysis system that includes a control and display capability such as a laptop computer with suitable application software and an onboard or connected database . Other sensory devices at least one video camera and optionally a microphone and other sensors are connected to system by wire or wireless means. System processes motion data and generates displays and or transmits reports and prescriptions as described in more detail below. Training tools are not directly linked to motion analysis system or the other associated components but may be used by the user or testee during practice exercises as prescribed by the system after testing and analysis all as is further explained below.

System and its related components may be operated at times on a stand alone basis but may always or at times be connected or connectable to a remote knowledge based enterprise system and database via a browser based internet access point or other high speed data connection for conducting data transfer and enterprise related activities between the host and local systems.

For example a website for the enterprise system and host database may provide access for registered user systems to the host company s information motion analysis products and services information management information company news user access via a log in screen for product and service FAQs news letters and database libraries of past performance and benchmark data and exercises and updates thereof.

The website may be configured to provide such global functionalities to registered users as general prescriptions and exercise instructions explanations and illustrations text and or audio video clubhouse events and news discussion forums special links for members global FAQs an on line store link special newsletters and access to relevant documents and training tips. The website may be divided by categories of registered users pages as between student users and instructor users and provide such particular functionalities as either group might need such as for instructors the history of instruction sessions by student portfolio the history of student analysis by portfolio with sessions organized or stored in respective student locker rooms by portfolio and scheduling for student sessions. Student pages may provide such functionalities as the individual s own personal data history of his sessions and analysis his training calendar instructor contact info and his golf scores and stats logbook.

There may be a third class of user an organization user such as a golf school or academy where a subset of the enterprise system is treated as an OEM client or model with its own branding hosting multiple students and instructors as described above.

Individual systems of the invention work in stand alone configurations as individual test and evaluation systems for collecting student performance data analyzing and comparing student data to a library of performance data including expert performance data reporting the results and prescribing corrective exercises. New test results are added to the database and may be delivered to or accessed by coaches and or students via on line access to internet services. Individual systems may share access to a host database of test results of other users and related practice drills for study or comparative purposes.

Alternate embodiments of the invention may be directed to other athletic occupational or rehabilitation motion analysis and training of animals or humans at either an enterprise level or a local system level as described below.

Referring to B C A and C various embodiments of body appliances for attaching motion sensors to the user s body and or golf club are illustrated. The appliances are designed to be repeatably donned by the user such that the sensor assemblies are positioned and repeatedly repositioned in the same place on the body or club for optimal motion sensing at selected critical points of anatomy particularly skeletal anatomy and or tool structure where they will provide motion data sufficient to define the initial position and full range of motion such that it can be reduced by data processing to the major component motions. The appliances are further refined structurally to minimize or avoid interference with body motion during execution of the movement under study. The appliances are yet further refined to retain body or tool position and to retain the relationship of the sensor assembly to the target area of the body or tool during normal body motion including any strenuous flexing and or acceleration associated with the motion under study so that the change of position data reported by each sensor most accurately reflects the real time experience of the target area of the body and or tool.

In one example for a golf swing analysis system there are a series of three appliances for mounting inertial sensors to the user s body. There is a vest appliance suitable for mounting an inertial sensor referred to as a shoulder sensor high on the user s back above and between the shoulder blades over the spinal column a waist belt appliance for mounting an inertial sensor referred to as a hip sensor low on the user s back just above the hips and over the spinal column and a glove appliance for mounting an inertial sensor to the back side of the user s forehand.

Referring to vest appliances and A respectively have a back panel at the top of which is attached a sensor pocket suitable for snuggly securing a respective sensor or A. Not visible in the figures but easily understood the back side of the pocket that will receive the underside of the sensors of D and is slotted to accept mounting loops in a keying manner that enhances the grip and position integrity of the sensor within the pocket of the appliance.

The slots or sockets for receiving the sensor loops may be characterized as mounting structure and may be further configured with latch mechanisms that secure the sensor loops within the receiving slots or sockets of the sensor pocket with a mechanical interlock. Variations of the sensor loop structure as a mounting clip or stud and of the pocket slot as a keyed receiver structure with a latching mechanism such as twist or click fit mechanism incorporated on either or both the appliance and the sensor are within the scope of the invention. The sensor pocket may be reduced in this instance to a mere location on the appliance rather than a full or partial enclosure for the sensor.

Shoulder straps extending from the top corners of back panel attach to strap ends A extending from the lower corners of the back panel via buckles. Chest belt sections and extend from the lower corners of the back panel for buckling on the front side of the wearer at about the level of the bottom of the rib cage or kidneys. All straps are adjustable in length for proper fitment to the wearer. The elongated back panel provides stability to the sensor from rotational displacement. The relatively high waist level of the chest strap provides security from vertical displacement of the sensor and avoids interference with the waist belt appliance .

Referring to waist belt appliances and A respectively have a belt panel the center section of which is fabricated of non stretch material and is configured with a sensor pocket with mounting loop slots as described above sized and suitable for snuggly securing either a sensor or A. Belt straps and extend from left and right ends of belt panel and are buckled together at the front of the wearer.

Referring to B and C glove appliance is configured with a backside strap the end of which is threaded through loops of sensor and secured by hook and loop material or other commonly known fastener means to glove appliance . As with the other appliances the loop and strap means of attachment may in the alternative be a hard mechanical interface between a suitable structure incorporated into the back of the glove appliance and a mating structure on the sensor.

Referring to B C and D and sensor in particular the packaging of the battery sensor transmitter and the internal circuitry for data processing transmission and for recharging the battery is uniquely designed to 1 minimize the package size and weight 2 place the center of mass as close as possible to the contact surface side of the sensor to minimize inertial forces tending to rotate or displace the sensor within its appliance relative to the intended target area of the user s body and 3 to optimize the location of the sensing elements within the package to be as close to the center of the sensor s footprint as practical for best intuitive alignment of the sensor over the target area. To this end the sensor uses a stacked configuration which places the relatively thin battery the heaviest component and majority mass of the sensor at the bottom closest to and conforming to the curved shape of the underside or user contact surface with the circuit boards and sensing elements above it only slightly further outboard from the user.

Each sensor has a unique identifier that is encoded within the output data stream for unambiguous identity during multi sensor operation. While not strictly necessary in typical systems sensors are mounted in their appliances on the body with a consistent pre determined orientation or up end direction simplifying the calibration and data processing.

Referring to one embodiment of a wireless inertial sensor of the invention consists of an enclosure having a bottom cover and a top cover within which is housed a lithium battery electronics shelf printed circuit board with switch battery charger circuitry on off button sensor assembly which includes the transmitter and light pipe . The lithium battery conforms to the curved shape of bottom cover . It is readily apparent that the mass of battery a substantial portion of the sensor mass is distributed across and close to bottom cover . This stacking arrangement with the battery at the bottom provides a very low center of gravity for the sensor improving its resistance to rotational or sliding displacement within the pocket of the appliance or on the back of the hand during body motion. The flat relatively thin battery shape permits the inertial sensor to be outboard of the battery and the sensor package to remain relatively thin.

As described above referring to D and mounting loops extend from bottom cover and provide for mounting stability in two respects. Sensor pockets and B and C in vest and waist belt appliances are configured with slots not shown but readily understood from this description that receive mounting loops providing a keying effect for proper insertion and positioning of the sensors within the pockets.

Referring to this embodiment sensor is a wired inertial sensor A and consists of an enclosure having components analogous to those of sensor but the enclosure shape and configuration of components is adapted to use a conventional volt battery positioned at one edge of the enclosure accessible through battery door rather than the stacked order of assembly of sensor .

Referring to there is in one embodiment of the motion analysis system a control module wired to sensors in sensor pocket and via cables and for receiving motion data. It has a hinged attachment to belt so that controls and display are easily viewable by the user. There is internal data processing capability and display driver for providing information directly to the user and an integral wireless transmitter or transceiver for transmitting data to a motion analysis system and or receiving setup or other data or instructions from the motion analysis system.

Control module is configured with a battery pack hip sensor input shoulder sensor input micro computer keypad LCD display USB connection remote sensor and system transceiver capability and optionally with a video game interface.

Referring to B and C there may in addition or in the alternative to the body worn appliances a mounting appliance attachable to the tool or in this case golf club for mounting a sensor. Alternatively the mounting means may be incorporated into the sensor enclosure as in wireless club sensor where the back cover incorporates a latch mechanism for securing sensor to the shaft of a golf club. Top cover encloses the battery at its lower end accessible via battery door while the electronic circuitry and sensor elements are contained in the upper section closer to the grip of the club.

Referring now to there is illustrated of one embodiment of the system and method of the invention in use consisting of a golfer wearing vest appliance and waist belt appliance which are each equipped with a wireless inertial sensor as described above. The golfer is holding a golf club with an inertial sensor mounted just below the grip of the club standing adjacent to a stand supporting a video camera directed at the golfer and an associated receiver and processing computer system with keyboard and display the display being viewed by an instructor.

The camera positions and direction with respect to the golfer s position size and posture are carefully aligned with respect to the test site from one or the other or both of at least two positions a first camera position at a specific down line angle height and lateral position or offset and another camera position for face on angle including height and offset. Correct camera positioning enables placement of an overlay in the video display that includes vertical and horizontal alignment lines representing center of alignment and center of balance. There may be multiple cameras on additional stands oriented to capture the motion from different directions and different heights and offsets and some or all may be positioned carefully to support the further use of overlays of alignment lines relating to the golfer s position size posture and expected motions so as to make motions and deviations in alignment very apparent in subsequent video presentations of the swing motion.

Stated more generally prior to testing it may be required to select and define a test site to have at least one motion reference point to then position the video camera to be directed at the test site at a pre defined angle of rotation around the point or test site a specific height relative to the reference point with a specific angle of elevation and lateral offset with respect to the reference point. Thereafter a video test signal of the test site and reference point is sent to the computer driven display screen and an overlay is inserted onto the computer driven display screen corresponding to the reference point from which specific motions are more easily observed.

The processing computer or PC of system performs relational calculations on the parameters received from the various sensors thereby allowing computation of various golf related parameters of interest. As an example the PC can calculate club face angle or the angle through which the golfer turns his or her shoulders while swinging the golf club. Such parameters are referred to here as performance or alternatively diagnostic parameters to distinguish them from the rate or position parameters transmitted by the sensors to the PC.

In a golf swing motion analysis system in particular rate and position motion data are typically processed by the application software into performance or diagnostic parameters relating to the golfer s body segment performance including hip velocity degrees per second hip rotation degrees negative and positive shoulder velocity degrees per second shoulder rotation degrees negative and positive club release degrees per second club speed miles per hour club face rotation degrees open closed club path degrees inside or outside of club s address position hip linear movement centimeters left or right of neutral address hip and shoulder separation time difference between maximum hip shoulder and club velocity flexion extension of hip segment centimeters traveled along z axis and kinetic link. These parameters are further extrapolated to yield a predicted resulting ball in flight performance of parameters spin degrees per second launch angle degrees carry distance roll distance yards total distance yards distance traveled off line yards right or left ball flight character fade draw hook slice push pull straight and PTI or power transfer index.

This processed information is reported to the golfer in a unique synchronized multi format presentation of the swing motion that is available in real time and or playback mode for optimal user and instructor assimilation.

A multi color animation of the golfer generated from the inertial sensor motion data is presented in the upper right portion of the display although it may be positioned elsewhere in the display. The animation may be color coded to distinguish major body segments e.g. the shoulders segment versus the hips segment. The animation may be oriented to view the swing motion from any useful angle depending on what aspect or component of the swing motion is being scrutinized at the time.

In the lower portion of the display a motion data time line graph traces hip shoulder and hand motions in a multi colored trace although it may be positioned elsewhere in the display. The graph may present simply the component motion data from the instant swing motion and demonstrate graphically the coordination between hips shoulders and hand motion or it may present a comparative trace of the present motion or component of motion compared to a prior motion or an expert motion in order to illustrate the degree of deviation and required improvement to achieve a desired performance level.

Referring to another example of the composite multi format synchronized display is a screen shot of a composite display of the invention incorporating the three formats of feedback of a video record of the golfer this time in the lower left side portion of the display a stepped frame animation of the club swing indicating the plane of the club swing and the hand orientation during a swing motion and three motion data time line graphs showing the club speed in three axis.

The stepped frame animation is a useful device for illustrating the plane path or arc of a motion or component of motion and is a further enhancement of the presentation. Selected positions of a point or object or portion of the video screen are retained as the video progresses so as to show the path leading up to the present position. The stepped aspect of the presentation can be done as function of time or of linear or angular displacement of the object or point of interest whichever better serves to illustrate the path of motion best for the viewer.

Stated more generally the multi color three dimensional animation representing the motion of at least one color coded body segment created from motion data may include or be in some embodiments a stepped frame animation where selected positions of an object in motion are retained in subsequent frames of the animation such that a motion track of the object is apparent to a viewer. The retained positions may be programmed to be selected on the basis of time position speed or acceleration of the object in motion.

The orientation on the screen of these multiple forms of simultaneous presentation may be varied. There may be additional information as well space permitting. A composite presentation of video animation and motion data graphs enhances the user s ability to quickly assimilate and appreciate the subtle differences at the component level of the swing motion between his current performance and the desired performance. A multi dimensional presentation of the swing performance can be watched in real time in an instant replay mode or in a later review.

The system also offers alternative and supplemental forms of presentation or report of the swing performance. Expanded graphs for example help clarify the timing of components of motion as well as the amplitude. For example is a line graph indicating posture with respect to trunk flex extension and trunk lateral bending versus time during a swing motion. is a line graph indicating degree of pivot during a swing motion. is a line graph indicating degrees of hip segment rotation shoulder segment rotation and torso load during a swing motion. is a line graph indicating degrees of shoulder segment rotation arm segment rotation and upper body load during a swing motion. is a line graph indicating alignment or coordination of hip segment rotation shoulder segment rotation arm segment rotation motions versus time during a swing motion. is a line graph indicating hip segment rotation speed shoulder segment rotation speed and arm segment rotation speed during a swing motion.

The animation capability of the system driven by the inertial sensor inputs offers additional opportunities for presenting more detailed illustrations of the swing motion in real time or playback mode. For example is a screen shot of a multi color animation illustrating the color distinction between the shoulder segment and the hips segment of the animation. This makes for easy and quick distinction between these components of the full swing motion. The numerical value of peak or range of rotation flexion and side bend are posted left and right of the animation for calibrating the user s perspective of the animation motion.

The animation capability provides yet a further training tool in the form of animated cages or scalable limits of selected parameters that cage the animated figure and illustrate the golfer s movement within the three dimensional frame. is a screen shot of a multi color animation illustrating the box or cage by which user settable parameters for lateral bending during swing motion are made apparent to the golfer for real time feedback. The processing computer can create an instantly apparent change to the display for example by turning the background orange for close calls and red for actual violation of the cage parameters during a swing motion.

Further examples of the power of motion data animation as part or all of the presentation or report part of the methodology follow. is a screen shot of a multi color animation illustrating the three dimensional grid or open frame by which user settable parameters for flexing during the swing motion are made apparent to the golfer as real time feedback. is a screen shot of a multi color animation illustrating the box by which user settable parameters for rotation.

The animation capability of the system can also be used to present an enhanced version of the time line traces or graphs. is a screen shot of a multi color line graph illustrating the coordination in time and amplitude of the rotational velocities of the hips shoulders and hand of the golfer during the swing motion.

It should be noted that although are illustrated here as full screen shots these and other animations of the motion data and settable parameters are within the scope of the invention and can be presented in the multi format form of with synchronized video and graphs.

It is a goal of the invention to provide an objective consistent analysis of each performance. The methodology of the invention depends on capturing motion data processing it into the described parameters relating to body segments and components of the motion providing a quantitative analysis of each component of motion and then summing the scores for each component of motion so as to produce a unitary number or kinetic index for the performance as a whole. One embodiment of a system for golf swing motion analysis processes motion data against benchmark values to produce a value on a uniform index scale of 0 50 for each of the following primary performance parameters sequence speed stability mobility transfer timing club performance and club accuracy. These values are summed in a pre determined order to arrive at a unitary number representing the kinetic index for the total performance on a scale of 0 100 as described further below.

Objectivity and repeatability of the system for motion analysis depends on a consistent process that examines and gives weighted consideration of all relevant aspects of the motion in calculating a final performance factor or kinetic index. Referring now to one aspect of the methodology of this embodiment is illustrated in an objective repeatable computer automated reduction of the basic or primary performance parameters 1 8 measured by system against pre selected benchmark values into a single kinetic index. The system uses a multi step process that sums the primary parameters into secondary parameters 9 12 then into body performance factor 13 and club performance factor 14 and finally merges these values into kinetic index 15 a quantification of the overall performance value of the swing motion being analyzed.

The primary parameter scores 1 8 are reduced in a first step by a simple summing of related parameters as follows 

These second order parameters are further reduced to a body performance factor 13 and a club performance factor 14 as follows 

It will be appreciated that the pre selected benchmark values of the individual parameters are somewhat arbitrary selected to provide a performance challenge to the anticipated range of skills of a target pool of testees. The use of other or alternative benchmark values and scoring formulas is within the scope of the invention. Also the selection and ratio or weight giving to each performance parameter in the reduction process is somewhat arbitrary the requirement being that each parameter is given a weight or degree of consideration recognized to be relevant to the overall performance.

The reduction process of primary performance parameters into a final kinetic index in the context of a golf swing analysis reflects the kinetic chain philosophy that the performance value of the total motion is the sum of the performance value of the component parts of the motion executed in an optimal sequence in order to transfer maximum energy and accuracy from feet to hips to shoulders to arms to the club and ultimately to the ball.

While this description of motion analysis and performance measurement has been cast in the context of a golf swing the apparatus and methodology is equally applicable to other athletic motions involving for example running and kicking leg motions and swinging or chopping hand and arm motions.

Having evaluated individual performance parameters which may also be referred to as diagnostic parameters the system is able to compare the performance results to a catalog of exercises appropriate to the respective parameters and their test result and provide an automated recommendation or prescription of exercises. The system may be further preprogrammed with the testee s available training schedule and hence able to tailor the prescription to the training time available with emphasis on the parameters most in need of improvement. In other words referring back to the invention extends the automated objective Report on performance to include a Prescription for improvement.

In this regard performance parameters are also characterized as diagnostic parameters. In the golf swing context they may relate to subsets body segments or components of the motion including feet hip and shoulder performance. For example diagnostic parameters of CBL center balance line extension and flexion and of CAL center alignment line left and right lateral bending relate to feet performance. Exercises appropriate to CBL extension problems are scaled according to a pre determined scheme to the severity or priority of the problem on a scale of 0 acceptable performance to 20 degrees significantly below acceptable performance . A rating of 5 degrees may generate a prescribed exercise called posture stick using particular training tools a relatively lower rating of 10 may call for the same exercise but with a different training tool and so on. The posture stick exercise for example requires manipulation of a club in a prescribed manner while standing on a base platform to acquire and practice attaining a stance with the correct alignment of the major joint centers of the body for creating an optimal muscle length tension relationship to enhance the body s postural equilibrium. Other exercises are similarly focused on particular body segments and components of the golf swing.

The initial selection of exercises and tools and the pre determined scheme for allocation of particular exercises for improving particular performance parameters is somewhat arbitrary but calculated to induce improvements in performance of components of motion and hence to the total motion performance if practiced as prescribed. The following table 1 lists one embodiment of diagnostic parameters and appropriate exercises by priority by which prescriptions would be issued by the system to a user.

Explanations and detailed instructions for the user s prescribed exercises are available on the local system or may be accessed directly or remotely via an internet access to a host enterprise with which the local system is affiliated.

Referring to steps of Test Prescribe require at least a local system while the exercise step is of course executed by the testee until he or she is ready to retest. A change in performance in a given primary parameter may or may not change the final kinetic index but it will result in a change in prescription to a next level of exercise applicable to that performance parameter.

The description above is largely directed to exemplary embodiments of the invention. Specificity of language and statements of advantageous performance in this specification do not imply any commensurate limitation on the scope of the invention nor do they require the stated performance. Thus no one embodiment disclosed herein is essential to the practice of another unless indicated as such. Indeed the invention as supported by the disclosure including specification claims abstract of the disclosure and figures provided includes all systems and methods that can be practiced from all suitable combinations of the various aspects disclosed and all suitable combinations of the exemplary elements listed. Such combinations have particular advantages including advantages not specifically recited herein.

Alterations and permutations of the proffered embodiments and methods will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon review of the specification claims and drawings. Although the disclosed system is particularly suitable for analysis and improvement of golf swings variations can be implemented for example for analysis and improvement of other athletic motions such as racquet sport swings like tennis or for analysis of other motions including animal motions particularly using the biofeedback mode and motion analysis and prescription techniques such as to diagnose and recommend courses of treatment for physical therapy. Accordingly none of the disclosure of the embodiments and methods constrains the scope of the invention. Rather the claims issuing hereon or on one or more applications claiming benefit of this application or the applications to which it claims priority will variously define the invention.

A system and method for analyzing and improving the performance of an athletic motion such as a golf swing may require instrumenting a user with inertial sensors and optionally with video cameras and monitoring a golf swing or other athletic motion of interest drawing upon and contributing to a vast library of performance data for analysis of the test results the analysis including scoring pre defined parameters relating to component parts of the motion and combining the parameter scores to yield a single kinetic index score for the motion providing an information rich graphic display of the results in multiple formats including video color coded and stepped frame animations from motion data and synchronized data time graphs and based on the results prescribing a user specific training regime with exercises selected from a library of standardized exercises using standardized tools and training aids.

Other and various examples and embodiments equivalent to and within the scope of the claims that follow will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

