---

title: Message addressing techniques for a mobile computing device
abstract: Various embodiments are directed to improved message addressing techniques. In one embodiment, a computing device may comprise a messaging client arranged to receive an input sequence of alphabetic or alphanumeric characters as a destination of an outbound message. The messaging client may recognize that the input sequence represents a mnemonic short code and may automatically generate a common short code comprising a sequence of numeric digits associated with the mnemonic short code. The messaging client may display both the input sequence comprising the mnemonic short code and the common short code and enable the outbound message to be sent using the common short code as the destination. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08275398&OS=08275398&RS=08275398
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08275398
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071102
---
Short Message Service SMS messaging is a form of communication supported by most mobile telephone service providers and widely available on various networks including Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA and third generation 3G networks. SMS messaging is described in GSM specifications such as GSM specification 03.40 Digital cellular telecommunications system Phase 2 Technical realization of the Short Message Service and GSM specification 03.38 Digital cellular telecommunications system Phase 2 Alphabets and language specific information. 

In general SMS messages from a sender are transmitted to a Short Message Service Center SMSC which provides a store and forward mechanism for delivering the SMS message to one or more recipients. An SMS message from a sender may contain an SMS header including a destination telephone number and a payload containing the text portion of the message. Typically the payload of an SMS message is limited by the supporting network infrastructure and communication protocol to no more than 140 bytes which translates to 160 7 bit characters based on a default 128 character set defined in GSM specification 03.38 140 8 bit characters or 70 16 bit characters for languages such as Arabic Chinese Japanese Korean and other double byte languages.

Due to payload limitations a long message having more than 140 bytes or 160 7 bit characters may be delivered as separate SMS messages. In some cases the SMS infrastructure may support concatenation allowing a long message to be sent and received as multiple concatenated SMS messages. In such cases the payload of each concatenated SMS message is limited to 140 bytes but also includes a user data header UDH prior to the text portion of the message. The UDH contains segmentation information for allowing the recipient to reassemble the multiple concatenated SMS messages into a single long message.

The text content of an SMS message may contain alphanumeric characters as well as iconic characters e.g. smiley characters made up of a combination of standard punctuation marks such as a colon dash and open bracket for a smile. Iconic characters may be selected by the sender sent as punctuation equivalents and deciphered back into iconic representations at the recipient. The text content of an SMS messages also may include certain classes of hidden messages reserved for use by network operators and push e mail clients to control data or events on the terminal.

Multimedia Messaging MMS technology provides capabilities beyond those of SMS and allows users to send and receive multimedia messages including graphics video and audio clips. Unlike SMS which depends primarily on the underlying wireless network technology e.g. GSM CDMA TDMA MMS relies on Internet Protocol IP technology and is designed to work with mobile packet data services such as General Packet Radio Service GPRS and Evolution Data Only Evolution Data Optimized EV DO .

In addition to full length e.g. 10 digit telephone numbers a common short code CSC also can be used as a destination to address SMS and or MMS messages. A CSC is a shorter telephone number ranging from four to six numeric digits and is commonly used in the context of mobile services. While a CSC is easier to memorize than a full length telephone number to make it even easier to remember the CSC may be designed or chosen as a mnemonic short code including a word or other pattern of letters and numbers that map to the numbers of a standard 12 key telephone keypad 1 none 2 ABC 3 DEF 4 GHI 5 JKL 6 MNO 7 PQRS 8 TUV 9 WXYZ none 0 none none . When using a standard 12 key telephone keypad a user may address an SMS or MMS message simply by pressing the keys associated with each letters and or number of the mnemonic short code.

Some mobile computing devices such as smart phones enable users to compose SMS and MMS messages using a full QWERTY keyboard. For many of such devices however the keys of the QWERTY keyboard do not provide standard 12 key telephone keypad functionality. Consequently addressing SMS or MMS messages when using a full QWERTY keyboard requires the user to know the actual numeric digits of the CSC. This can be cumbersome especially in cases where the user knows a mnemonic short code but has to look at the layout of a standard 12 key telephone keypad to get the numeric digits of the CSC corresponding to the letters of a word before addressing the message.

Accordingly there is a need for improved message addressing techniques for a mobile computing device.

Various embodiments are directed to improved message addressing techniques. In one embodiment a computing device may comprise a messaging client arranged to receive an input sequence of alphabetic or alphanumeric characters as a destination of an outbound message. The messaging client may recognize that the input sequence represents a mnemonic short code and may automatically generate a common short code comprising a sequence of numeric digits associated with the mnemonic short code. The messaging client may display both the input sequence comprising the mnemonic short code and the common short code and enable the outbound message to be sent using the common short code as the destination.

The messaging client may associate numeric digits with the alphabetic characters of the input sequence by parsing the input sequence into alphabetic and numeric characters and translating the alphabetic characters of the input sequence into numeric digits by mapping the alphabetic characters to the number digits of a standard 12 key telephone keypad layout.

When composing a message a user may enter the input sequence into an address field of a messaging user interface using a full QWERTY keyboard. Upon navigating away from the address field or entering a delimiter e.g. comma semicolon etc. the messaging client validates the input sequence and begins translation. In some implementations the messaging client may recognize that the input sequence represents a mnemonic short code based on the length of the input sequence such as when the input sequence comprises between four and six characters.

The mobile computing device may comprise a housing encapsulating various internal components such as a printed circuit board PCB internal antennas a removable and rechargeable battery e.g. lithium ion battery as well as one or more processors e.g. host processor radio processor modem processor baseband processor memory e.g. volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory transceivers e.g. voice communications transceiver data communications transceiver GPS transceiver and others. The housing may be formed from materials such as plastic metal ceramic glass and others which are suitable for enclosing and protecting the internal components of the mobile computing device .

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keyboard having a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. In various embodiments the alphanumeric keyboard may be used for addressing and composing various types of messages including SMS and MMS messages. As shown the QWERTY key layout and integrated number dial pad of the alphanumeric keyboard comprise keys that function alternately as letters and numbers. It can be appreciated that the alternate number letter keys e.g. E R T D F G X C V and 0 of the keyboard do not function identically to a standard 12 key telephone keypad.

The mobile computing device may comprise various buttons such as for example a volume button a customizable button a left action button a right action button a phone send button a power end button a start button an OK button and a navigation button . The navigation button may be used to input navigation information from the user corresponding to left right up down and select commands to navigate among and within various graphical user interfaces and or to select available functions or menu items displayed to a user. It is to be appreciated that multi directional navigation functionality may be implemented using elements other than the navigation button such as a 4 5 or 8 way multi directional touch pad a joystick an accelerometer for detecting directional commands soft keys and or any other type of navigation elements in accordance with the described embodiments.

The mobile computing device may comprise various devices that support audio video A V capability such as an audio port to connect an audio headset a microphone one or more speakers an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a Musical Instrument Digital Interface MIDI device a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth. The mobile computing device may comprise and a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode. The mobile computing device also may comprise an expansion slot to support a memory card such as a secure digital SD card multimedia memory card MMC and or any other type of storage card in accordance with the described embodiments.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system implemented by one or more internal antennas not shown and or external antennas such as a stub antenna . In various embodiments the antenna system may comprise one or more internal and or external antennas tuned for operating at one or more frequency bands so that the mobile computing device may be compatible with multiple wireless data multimedia and or cellular telephone networks or systems.

The mobile computing device may comprise a display implemented by a LCD or other type of suitable visual interface. The display may comprise for example a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color display screen such as a thin film transistor TFT LCD. In various embodiments the display may be arranged to present a messaging graphical user interface GUI to a user.

The messaging GUI may comprise an address field for receiving an input sequence of alphabetic or alphanumeric characters as a destination of an outbound message. A user may enter the input sequence into the address field using the keyboard . The input sequence may comprise for example alphabetic or alphanumeric characters representing a mnemonic short code. The mnemonic short code may comprise a word or other pattern of letters and numbers that map to the numbers of a standard 12 key telephone keypad 1 none 2 ABC 3 DEF 4 GHI 5 JKL 6 MNO 7 PQRS 8 TUV 9 WXYZ none 0 none none . It can be appreciated that the input sequence may comprise upper and lower case letters as well as numbers.

In some implementations the input sequence may be recognized as representing a mnemonic short code when the input sequence includes between four and six characters. It can be appreciated however that the input sequence may comprise any number of characters in accordance with the described embodiments. For example in some embodiments input sequences including between three and fifteen characters may be recognized.

The absence of certain characters in the input sequence may support mnemonic short code recognition. For example the absence of an character in the input sequence may indicate that input sequence is not an e mail address and support mnemonic short code recognition. In some embodiments the input sequence may be recognized as representing a mnemonic short code when the input sequence does not match entries in a contacts database arranged to store contact records for individuals or entities specified by the user of the mobile computing device . In other embodiments mnemonic short code recognition may preempt reverse look up using contact records.

Upon navigating away from the address field or entering a delimiter e.g. comma semicolon etc. after the input sequence the input sequence is validated and translated into a common short code comprising a sequence of numeric digits associated with the mnemonic short code. Numeric digits may be associated with the alphabetic characters of the input sequence by parsing the input sequence into alphabetic and numeric characters and translating the alphabetic characters of the input sequence into numeric digits by mapping the alphabetic characters to the number digits of a standard 12 key telephone keypad layout. Numeric characters of the input sequence typically will not require translation.

As shown for purposes of illustration an exemplary input sequence e.g. Idol01 comprising alphanumeric characters is recognized as representing a mnemonic short code. In response a common short code e.g. 436501 comprising a sequence of numeric digits associated with the mnemonic short code is automatically generated. The messaging GUI displays both the input sequence e.g. Idol01 comprising the mnemonic short code and the common short code e.g. 436501 comprising the sequence of numeric digits in parenthesis. The outbound message may be sent using the common short code e.g. 436501 as the destination.

As shown the messaging system may include a sender computing terminal communicating with a recipient computing terminal over a network . The network may comprise any type of network e.g. GSM CDMA TDMA 3G etc. that supports messaging in accordance with the described embodiments. In some implementations the network may support WWAN data communication services such as one or more cellular data communication services e.g. GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT EDGE EVDO EV DV HSDPA etc. .

In various embodiments the network may be arranged to operate using the underlying infrastructure for standard SMS messaging and to abide by the 140 byte and or character payload constraints for standard SMS message content. As shown the network may comprise Short Message Service Center SMSC arranged to operate in accordance with the standard SMS infrastructure and to provide a store and forward mechanism for receiving an SMS message from the sender computing terminal and delivering the SMS message to the recipient computing terminal .

It can be appreciated one or more alternate transport mechanisms such as Unstructured Supplementary Service Data USSD may be employed within the SMS context in some implementations. In general USSD is handled by the same transport mechanism as SMS but avoids the need to employ the store and forward capability of SMSC . Accordingly USSD messaging may allow faster communication among paired devices in some cases. In some implementations SMS may be used as an initial transport mechanism and switched to USSD if supported by the network.

Each of the computing terminals may comprise or be implemented as various devices such as a mobile computing device personal computer PC server based computer laptop computer notebook computer tablet PC handheld computer landline telephone mobile telephone personal digital assistant PDA combination mobile telephone PDA television device set top box STB a gaming console mobile unit subscriber station media player pager messaging device data communication device consumer electronics CE device A V equipment home automation equipment or any other suitable computing or processing system in accordance with the described embodiments.

In the exemplary embodiment shown in the recipient computing terminal may be implemented as a server or other computing device or system arranged to receive an SMS message addressed to a particular CSC. The particular CSC may be designed or chosen as a mnemonic short code including a word or other pattern of letters and or numbers that maps to the numbers on a standard 12 key telephone keypad. The recipient computing terminal may support one or more mobile services such as text voting ordering media objects e.g. ringtones songs videos maps etc. polling making donations making reservations submitting queries and so forth.

The sender computing terminal may be implemented as an SMS enabled mobile devices such as mobile computing device . The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keyboard for addressing and composing an SMS message and a display for presenting messaging GUI to a user. In various embodiments the alphanumeric keyboard may comprise a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad.

As shown the messaging GUI may comprise an address field such as a To field for entering a destination address. In some embodiments the To field may be arranged to display a contact name by performing a reverse look up in the contact records of the user by destination address. In some cases the address field may comprise other items such as a CC field a BCC field a subject field status line e.g. message priority receipt status errors receipt request validity period callback number and so forth.

In various embodiments a user may enter an input sequence into the address field e.g. To field as a destination of an outbound message. The user may enter the input sequence using the alphanumeric keyboard . The input sequence may comprise for example alphabetic or alphanumeric characters representing a mnemonic short code. The mnemonic short code may comprise a word or other pattern of letters and numbers that map to the numbers of a standard 12 key telephone keypad.

As shown for purposes of illustration an exemplary input sequence e.g. Idol01 is entered into the address field . Upon navigating away from the address field or entering a delimiter e.g. comma semicolon etc. after the input sequence the input sequence is determined to be a valid entry for a destination address and recognized as representing a mnemonic short code.

In some implementations the input sequence may be recognized as representing a mnemonic short code when including between four and six characters. It can be appreciated however that the input sequence may comprise any number of characters in accordance with the described embodiments. For example in some embodiments input sequences including between three and fifteen characters may be recognized.

The absence of certain characters such as an character in the input sequence may indicate that input sequence is not an e mail address and support mnemonic short code recognition. In some embodiments the input sequence may be recognized as representing a mnemonic short code when the input sequence does not match entries in a contacts database arranged to store contact records for individuals or entities specified by the user of the mobile computing device . In other embodiments mnemonic short code recognition may preempt reverse look up using contact records.

Once recognized as a mnemonic short code the input sequence e.g. Idol01 comprising alphanumeric characters is parsed into alphabetic e.g. I d o and l and numeric 0 and 1 characters. It can be appreciated that the input sequence may comprise upper and lower case letters as well a numbers. Numeric digits may be associated with the alphabetic characters of the input sequence by mapping each of the alphabetic characters e.g. I d o and l to the number digits of a standard 12 key telephone keypad layout 1 none 2 ABC 3 DEF 4 GHI 5 JKL 6 MNO 7 PQRS 8 TUV 9 WXYZ none 0 none none . In this example the alphabetic characters map to number digits as follows I 4 d 3 o 6 and l 5. The numeric characters e.g. 0 and 1 of the input sequence do not require translation.

A common short code e.g. 436501 comprising a sequence of numeric digits associated with the mnemonic short code is generated. The messaging GUI displays both the input sequence e.g. Idol01 representing the mnemonic short code and the common short code e.g. 436501 comprising the sequence of numeric digits associated with the mnemonic short code in parenthesis.

After composing a message the common short code e.g. 436501 may be used as the destination of an outbound message. As shown the messaging GUI may comprise a message composition area for entering SMS message text content and may indicate total message length. The messaging GUI also may comprise an emoticon button for displaying a pop up list of emoticons that can be inserted into the text area a text button for displaying a pop up list of boilerplate text strings that can be inserted into messages and edited and. The messaging GUI may comprise a send button for sending the message and a cancel button for canceling the message.

The messaging UI also may comprise an add media button to allow the user to add media objects such as pictures video and or sounds to a message. When the user selects to add media the user may be presented with a picture video recorder picker and or a sound recorder or picker. In some cases the user may be presented with an intermittent dialog warning the user about the fact that the messaging service might charge more for delivering media objects.

In some embodiments the messaging GUI may be arranged to display various menu items or soft keys in response to pressing a menu button or by tapping and holding the screen for example. Exemplary menu items or soft keys may include without limitation Send Add Recipient Insert My Text Emoticons Add Media Add Picture Add Video Add Sound Pick Sound Record Sound Add Callback Number Add vCard Add vCal Clear Select All Paste Copy Cut Undo Save to Drafts Save as Template Spell Check Check Names Cancel Message Message Options and so forth.

In some embodiments the messaging UI may enable a user to compose messages of different types of formats using the same unified messaging UI. For example the messaging UI may comprise a unified messaging UI for SMS messages and MMS messages. In some implementations the unified messaging UI may be implemented to support using various types of messages and messaging applications. In such implementations the message options soft key may enable the user to select among various types of message conversions and or delivery methods for sending a composed message. For example the user may compose a message in one format e.g. e mail IM etc. and then convert or send the message in another format e.g. SMS MMS etc. In some cases the conversion of a message from one format to a particular sending format may be based on programmed and or detected preferences constraints and or availability of a recipient to receive messages of a certain format.

The mobile computing device may provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems and so forth.

In addition to voice communications functionality the mobile computing device may be arranged to provide mobile packet data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering mobile packet data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Optimized EVDO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EVDV systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems or protocols. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth. The mobile computing device may also utilize different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v10 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electromagnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

As shown in the embodiment of the mobile computing device may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor . In various implementations the host processor and the radio processor may be arranged to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines audio lines and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although the mobile computing device is shown with a dual processor architecture it may be appreciated that the mobile computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the processors may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. The host processor may also be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth. The keypad may comprise a physical keypad using hard buttons or a virtual keypad using soft buttons displayed on a display .

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 36 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise a vibrate motor coupled to the host processor . The vibrate motor may be enable or disabled according to the preferences of the user of the mobile computing device . When enabled the vibrate motor may cause the mobile computing device to move or shake in a generic and or patterned fashion in response to a triggering event such as the receipt of a telephone call text message an alarm condition a game condition and so forth. Vibration may occur for a fixed duration and or periodically according to a pulse.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to synchronize information with a local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a Musical Instrument Digital Interface MIDI device a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

The radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. The radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. The radio processor may also be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. The radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using any of the computer readable media described with reference to the memory . The memory may be typically implemented as flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the radio processor some or all of the memory may be included on the same IC as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communications and or data communications for the wireless network systems or protocols as previously described. In some embodiments the transceiver module may further comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user. In some embodiments the SIM may be implemented as an UMTS universal SIM USIM card or a CDMA removable user identity module RUIM card. The SIM may comprise a SIM application toolkit STK comprising a set of programmed commands for enabling the SIM to perform various functions. In some cases the STK may be arranged to enable the SIM to independently control various aspects of the mobile computing device .

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs . System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE OS Microsoft Pocket PC OS Microsoft Mobile OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The mobile computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

Examples of application programs may include without limitation messaging applications web browsing applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. Messaging applications may be arranged to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. Examples of messaging applications may include without limitation a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a Push to Talk PTT application a voicemail application a facsimile application a video teleconferencing application an IM application an e mail application an SMS application an MMS application and so forth. It is also to be appreciated that the mobile computing device may implement other types of applications in accordance with the described embodiments.

The mobile computing device may include various databases implemented in the memory . For example the mobile computing device may include a message content database a message log database a contacts database a media database a preferences database and so forth. The message content database may be arranged to store content and attachments e.g. media objects for various types of messages sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The message log may be arranged to track various types of messages which are sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The contacts database may be arranged to store contact records for individuals or entities specified by the user of the mobile computing device . The media database may be arranged to store various types of media content such as image information audio information video information and or other data. The preferences database may be arranged to store various settings such as rules and parameters for controlling the operation of the mobile computing device .

As show in the mobile computing device may comprise or implement an SMS client arranged to send and receive SMS messages. In various embodiments the SMS client may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. For example the SMS client may be implemented by SMS logic e.g. instructions data and or code such as software to be executed by a logic device such as the processor of the mobile computing device .

The SMS logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media such as memory memory memory and so forth. In some embodiments SMS logic may be implemented by the SIM . For example the SIM may comprise a STK configured to act as a security layer for the SMS client and or as part of the mechanism for message interpretation or alteration. The SIM also may comprise an elementary file EF storing the SMS messaging capabilities of the mobile computing device .

In general the SMS client may be used to compose and send an SMS message to one or more remote devices. The SMS client may be arranged to record inbound and outbound SMS traffic by destination address. For example SMS client may record SMS traffic in the message log implemented by a database in memory . The message log may be arranged to maintain a history that records addresses and the date time of inbound and outbound SMS messages. The SMS client also may be arranged to access the message content database and or the contacts database when receiving and or sending various types of messages.

As shown the SMS client may comprise several functional components or modules for performing various operations. It can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media.

It also is to be appreciated that the described embodiments illustrate exemplary implementations and that the functional components and or modules may be implemented in various other ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. Furthermore the operations performed by such components or modules may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components or modules.

The SMS client may comprise a message composer module to support the composition and sending of outbound SMS messages including new messages and reply messages. The composer module may be arranged to receive user input from the keypad and to present a messaging GUI on the display .

In various embodiments the message composer module may receive an input sequence entered into an address field of a messaging UI as a destination of an outbound message. The input sequence may comprise for example alphabetic or alphanumeric characters representing a mnemonic short code. The mnemonic short code may comprise a word or other pattern of letters and numbers that map to the numbers of a standard 12 key telephone keypad

When the user navigates away from the address field or enters a delimiter e.g. comma semicolon etc. after the input sequence the message composer module may determine that the input sequence is a valid entry for a destination address and recognize the input sequence as representing a mnemonic short code. In some implementations the message composer module may recognize the input sequence as representing a mnemonic short code when including between four and six characters. It can be appreciated however that the input sequence may comprise any number of characters in accordance with the described embodiments. For example in some embodiments input sequences including between three and fifteen characters may be recognized.

The absence of certain characters such as an character in the input sequence may indicate that input sequence is not an e mail address and support mnemonic short code recognition. In some embodiments the input sequence may be recognized as representing a mnemonic short code when the input sequence does not match entries in a contacts database arranged to store contact records for individuals or entities specified by the user of the mobile computing device . In other embodiments mnemonic short code recognition may preempt reverse look up using contact records.

The SMS client may comprise an address parser module to parse the input sequence entered as the destination address. It can be appreciated that the input sequence may comprise upper and lower case letters as well a numbers. The address parser module may be arranged to parse an alphabetic or alphanumeric input sequence recognized as a mnemonic short code into alphabetic and numeric characters.

The SMS client may comprise an address translator module to translate the input sequence representing a mnemonic short code into a common short code comprising a sequence of numeric digits associated with the mnemonic short code. The address translator module may be arranged to associate numeric digits with the alphabetic characters parsed from of the input sequence by mapping each of the alphabetic characters to the number digits of a standard 12 key telephone keypad layout 1 none 2 ABC 3 DEF 4 GHI 5 JKL 6 MNO 7 PQRS 8 TUV 9 WXYZ none 0 none none . The numeric characters of the input sequence may not require translation. The address translator module may generate the common short code comprising a sequence of numeric digits associated with the mnemonic short code.

The composer module may display both the input sequence representing the mnemonic short code and the common short code comprising the sequence of numeric digits associated with the mnemonic short code. After the message has been composed the common short code may be used as the destination of an outbound message.

The logic flow may comprise receiving an input sequence of alphabetic or alphanumeric characters representing a mnemonic short code as a destination of an outbound message block recognizing that the input sequence represents a mnemonic short code block and automatically generating a common short code comprising a sequence of numeric digits associated with the mnemonic short code block . In various embodiments the logic flow may comprise displaying both the input sequence comprising the mnemonic short code and the common short code block and sending the outbound message using the common short code as the destination block .

When composing a message a user may enter the input sequence into an address field of a messaging user interface using a full QWERTY keyboard. Upon navigating away from the address field or entering a delimiter e.g. comma semicolon etc. the input sequence may be validated and translated. In some implementations the input sequence may be recognized as representing a mnemonic short code based on the length of the input sequence such as when the input sequence comprise between four and six characters. Numeric digits may be associated with the alphabetic characters of the input sequence by parsing the input sequence into alphabetic and numeric characters and translating the alphabetic characters of the input sequence into numeric digits by mapping the alphabetic characters to the number digits of a standard 12 key telephone keypad layout.

In various embodiments logic flow may comprise or be implemented as executable computer program instructions. The executable computer program instructions may be implemented by software a software module an application a program a subroutine instructions an instruction set computing code words values symbols or combination thereof. The executable computer program instructions may include any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code and the like. The executable computer program instructions may be implemented according to a predefined computer language manner or syntax for instructing a computer to perform a certain function. The executable computer program instructions may be implemented using any suitable high level low level object oriented visual compiled and or interpreted programming language such as C C Java BASIC Perl Matlab Pascal Visual BASIC assembly language and others.

In various embodiments logic flow may comprise or be implemented as executable computer program instructions stored in an article of manufacture and or computer readable storage medium. The article and or computer readable storage medium may store executable computer program instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to perform methods and or operations in accordance with the described embodiments. The article and or computer readable storage medium may be implemented by various systems and or devices in accordance with the described embodiments.

The article and or computer readable storage medium may comprise one or more types of computer readable storage media capable of storing data including volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other suitable type of computer readable media in accordance with the described embodiments.

Numerous specific details have been set forth herein to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood by those skilled in the art however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details disclosed herein may be representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

It is also worthy to note that any reference to various embodiments some embodiments one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in various embodiments in some embodiments in one embodiment or in an embodiment in places throughout the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising exemplary functional components or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof.

Some of the figures may include a flow diagram. Although such figures may include a particular logic flow it can be appreciated that the logic flow merely provides an exemplary implementation of the general functionality. Further the logic flow does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the logic flow may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a computer or any combination thereof.

Some embodiments may be implemented as an article of manufacture comprising a computer readable storage medium to store executable computer program instructions for performing various operations as described herein. In such embodiments a computer may include any suitable computer platform device system or the like implemented using any suitable combination of hardware and or software.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

It is worthy to note that some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however also may mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. With respect to software elements for example the term coupled may refer to interfaces message interfaces API exchanging messages and so forth.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

