---

title: Redundant pile of inexpensive drivers (RPID)
abstract: The claimed subject matter provides a system and/or method that manages storage media associated with a plurality of disparate devices. The disclosed system can include a network of disparate devices wherein each device in the network can be associated with storage media. Additionally, the disclosed system can also include a component that identifies each device in the network, associates a likelihood that the device will periodically leave or rejoin the network, and utilizes the associated likelihood to construct a logical redundant pile of inexpensive disks comprising the storage media associated with the disparate devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07941516&OS=07941516&RS=07941516
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07941516
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070615
---
Advancements in networking and computing technologies have transformed many aspects of everyday life and in particular have transformed computers from being low performance high cost devices capable of performing elementary word processing and simplistic basic mathematical computations and manipulations to high performance low cost machines capable of a myriad of disparate and highly complex functions and utilities. For instance computers have become household staples rather than luxuries educational tools and or entertainment centers and can provide individuals and corporations tools to manage and forecast finances control operations such as heating cooling lighting and security and store records and images in a permanent and reliable medium. As further illustration at the consumer level computing devices can be employed to aid users in paying bills tracking expenses communicating nearly instantaneously with friends and or family across vast distances by way of e mail and or instant messaging obtaining information from networked the repositories and numerous other functions activities.

As computing and network technologies have evolved and have become more robust secure and reliable more consumers wholesalers retailers entrepreneurs educational institutions and the like have and are shifting business paradigms and are employing the Internet to perform business rather than utilizing traditional means. For example today consumers can access their bank accounts on line e.g. via the Internet and can perform an ever growing number of banking transactions such as balance inquiries fund transfers bill payments and the like.

Conventionally only multinational corporations governmental entities and organizations and or professional companies have been able to afford and benefit from Redundant Array of Inexpensive Drive RAID technologies. Such technologies have typically been employed to store large amounts of data e.g. financial transactions component parts lists and the like in a secure yet accessible manner. Nevertheless with the ever growing demands for hard drive space more affordable and commonly accessible and equivalent techniques would find eager and receptive audiences especially in the area of consumer and household systems.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosed subject matter. This summary is not an extensive overview and it is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope thereof. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The subject matter as claimed relates to storage space management solutions and in particular to storage space identified by an individual or automatically identified or determined by a machine effectuated entity such that the identified storage space and associated devices can be analyzed and or dynamically pooled and or virtually amalgamated in a distributed manner to provide for an ad hoc Redundant Pile of Inexpensive Drives RPID . The claimed subject matter can take advantage of and synchronize existing storage space available on a plethora of common household appliances and devices such as for example multimedia recording and playback devices kitchen appliances mobile or cellular telephones and the like to provide an inexpensive ad hoc Redundant Array of Inexpensive Drives RAID approximation.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects of the disclosed and claimed subject matter are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles disclosed herein can be employed and is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject matter as claimed is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof.

Over time there has been an inexorable trend towards home and or consumer mass storage solutions. Additionally there has been a move away from utilization of physical media such as hard disks e.g. non volatile storage devices that store or persist digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating platters with magnetic surfaces and or optically retentive coatings to the use of non volatile memory typically employed in memory cards thumb devices handy drives memory sticks and the like in many if not most home devices and or appliances. Moreover in the home or household environment there has been to date an unmet need for storage solutions that have taken advantage of extant and typically under utilized physical media associated with domestic appliances and or devices to provide Redundant Array of Inexpensive Drives RAID and or Redundant Array of Inexpensive Drives RAID equivalent storage solutions.

Professionals corporations and companies typically employ Redundant Array of Inexpensive Drives RAID to persist large amounts of data. Nevertheless such systems are generally priced well beyond the means of average consumers. With the ever growing demands for hard drive disk space a household type RAID system would be beneficial. Since most households already have more than one hard drive disk containing device in the house the claimed subject matter can take advantage of and synchronizes extant disk drive space to provide an ad hoc RAID approximation a redundant pile rather than a redundant array . The subject matter as claimed can arrange and disseminate extant content from drive disk to drive disk in such a way as to optimize accessibility and space thereby mitigating the need for consumer maintenance. Moreover additional drives disks can easily be added to the system as needed and can automatically be accommodated without user interaction and or intervention. Accordingly the claimed subject matter offers the professional results of a RAID system without the exorbitant expenditures and costs typically associated with such systems.

The claimed subject matter in one illustrative aspect relates to storage space management solutions and more particularly to storage space identified by an individual or automatically identified or determined by a machine effectuated entity such that the identified storage space and associated devices can be analyzed and dynamically pooled or virtually amalgamated in a distributed manner to provide for an ad hoc Redundant Pile of Inexpensive Drives Devices RPID .

Network topology can include any viable communication technology for example wired and or wireless modalities and or technologies can be employed to effectuate the subject matter as claimed. Moreover network topology can include utilization of Personal Area Networks PANs Local Area Networks LANs Campus Area Networks CANs Metropolitan Area Networks MANs extranets intranets the Internet Wide Area Networks WANs both centralized and distributed and or any combination permutation and or aggregation thereof. Additionally and or alternatively network topology can employ power electricity line communications wherein power distribution wires are utilized for both the simultaneous distribution of data as well as transmission of power electricity .

As stated above volume controller can be in continuous and operative or sporadic and intermittent communications with a number of common consumer and or household devices. Illustrative consumer and or household devices can include desktop computers e.g. personal computers manufactured specifically for use on a desk in an office or home and distinguishable from portable computers such as laptops hand held devices e.g. Personal Digital Assistants PDAs cell phones or mobile phones smart phones multimedia and Internet enabled mobile phones etc. portable computers e.g. notebook computers Tablet PCs laptop computers and the like Personal Video Recorders PVRs and or Digital Video Recorders DVRs e.g. any device capable of recording audio video multimedia presentations without videotape to digital storage media and playback recorded content from digital storage media multimedia players e.g. portable media players capable of storing and or playing files in one or more media format and household appliances e.g. televisions video recorders camcorders High Fidelity home cinema centers video game controllers digital audio players consumer electronics such as compact disc players digital versatile disk players and home appliances such as dishwashers washing machines microwave ovens clothes dryers and the like .

Volume controller can utilize network topology e.g. employing power line communications methodologies and the like to monitor the removal and or addition of components that currently constitute network topology . For example volume controller can monitor and or detect the removal and or addition of a laptop to network topology . On discovering the absence and or presence of a previously associated device and or a newly added device volume controller can identify the type of device being added and or removed e.g. hand held device kitchen appliance portable computer and the like the size and unused capacity of the storage media associated with the added and or removed device and the type of storage media e.g. volatile and or nonvolatile memory associated with the added and or removed device. Volume controller based at least in part on the aforementioned information can in this manner establish and or reorder an agglomeration of previously detected and identified storage media associated with disparate household and consumer devices to form a pile of inexpensive disks devices.

Volume controller can further utilize one or more of artificial intelligence and or machine learning methodologies and or components external sources e.g. databases previously persisted statistical and or probabilistic tabulations and the like and or concurrently and or contemporaneously ascertained statistical and or probabilistic methodologies to dynamically ascertain the likelihood that an added device will subsequently exit a constructed pile of inexpensive disks. Similarly volume controller can employ artificial intelligence and or machine learning modalities and or components to update external sources and or concurrently ascertained statistical and or probabilistic tabulations to reflect the departure of previously associated devices and their affiliated storage media from the established pile of disks.

Additionally volume controller on ascertaining the type of device the type of storage media confederated with the device the likelihood and or frequency that a device will need to exit and or rejoin an established pile and the size and putative unused capacity associated with the storage media can allocate location slots within the pile for the identified media. The location within the pile of disks can be based at least in part on factors such as relative unused storage capacity the relative frequency probability and likelihood that a device and its associated storage media will need to rejoin and or depart from the pile. For example it is unlikely that a kitchen appliance s associated non volatile memory will need to exit or rejoin the constructed pile on a frequent basis. In contrast a portable media player or notebook computer by their very definitions would have a high probability of needing to be removed and added to the pile on a frequent and periodic basis. Accordingly volume controller can assign a higher location slot to more static devices such as kitchen appliances and lower location slots to more dynamic or transitory devices for example. Moreover volume controller can optimize location storage based on storage device access retrieval speed and other network latency factors. As will be appreciated by those cognizant in the art other variations can be employed to denote a ranking or ordering and any and all such variations combinations permutations or derivatives thereof are intended to fall within the spirit ambit and intent of the claimed subject matter.

An ancillary utility of the aforementioned ordering or ranking regime is that volume controller can differentiate and distinguish between data and thus desist or positively avoid persisting crucial and or high value data on storage media that might be deemed temporary and or transient by volume controller . In other words volume controller can maintain and order or rank storage media according to a relative degree of transition. For instance the more transitory or temporary a particular device or appliance is deemed to be the less likely it is that volume controller will distribute and or allocate or cause to distribute and or allocate crucial and or very important data to be persisted on associated media affiliated with the device or appliance. Conversely the greater the determined or ascertained relative permanency of the device or appliance the more likely it is that volume controller will disseminate and or persist relatively important data on storage media affiliated with the device and or appliance.

Where appliances and or devices e.g. video tape recorders multimedia players convection ovens and the like are ascertained to be rejoining an established pile of disks volume controller can access and or revise any prior evaluation or estimation that may have been made regarding available free space on associated storage media confederated with the appliances and or devices. Such an assessment can include accessing and revising one or more persisted tables index sectors databases and the like. On the other hand where volume controller determines that added appliances and or devices have never constituted or contributed storage media to an established pile and or a pile is first being constructed volume controller can update and or create appropriate tables and or table entries to reflect construction and or additions to the pile of disks. It should be noted at this juncture that while the claimed subject matter is elucidated in terms of tables the subject matter as claimed is not so limited as other appropriate data structures such as linked lists trees binary and or multiway stacks queues and the like can be employed without departing from the spirit scope and or intent of the disclosed subject matter.

Once volume manager has reevaluated revised and or reappraised tables and or other associated data structures to reflect the rejoining and or addition of appliances and or devices together with their associated storage media volume control can commence or cause associated structures and components to distribute readjust or more evenly reallocate extant data and or newly acquired data across available storage media. Once again artificial intelligence and or machine learning modalities can be employed to facilitate such load balancing and or redistribution of data extant and or newly acquired or recently received. Additionally volume controller can ensure that more crucial important or critical data is mirrored and or duplexed appropriately to ensure redundancy.

With regard to redundancy volume controller can employ data striping where logically sequential data is segmented so that segments can be written to multiple physical devices in a round robin fashion. Volume controller in addition can utilize disk mirroring or volume mirroring wherein logical disk volumes are replicated onto separate logical disk volumes in real time to ensure continuous availability concurrency and accuracy. Such mirroring can be performed synchronously asynchronously semi synchronously and or at dynamically determined and or pre established pre determined points in time. Moreover volume controller can utilize dedicated parity distributed parity and or dual distributed parity to achieve data redundancy and integrity. Additionally volume controller can implement nested levels wherein derivatives combinations and permutations of the aforementioned mirroring or duplexing striping dedicated parity distributed parity and or dual distributed parity are utilized in conjunction or selectively in combination with one another.

Volume controller based at least in part on determined or ascertained indications of whether or not a device and or appliance is subject to being permanently or temporarily removed from the network topology can nominate or designate appliances and or devices or more particularly storage media associated with nominated or designated devices and or appliances as a hot spare. The hot spare depending on a user specified and or dynamically determined policy can be employed to automatically and or manually replace failing failed and or temporarily and or permanently removed storage media in the established redundant pile of inexpensive disk devices configuration. Typically the hot spare reduces meantime to recovery for the established pile and commensurately reduces the probability of second and or tertiary storage media failure together with the associated data loss that can ensue. Accordingly nominations or designations in relation to being a hot spare can be based on determinations made through use of artificial intelligence and or machine learning modalities and or systems etc. Thus for example appliances and or devices that are fairly static are not subject to periodic removal and addition to the network are more likely to be nominated or designated as being a hot spare device. Conversely devices and or appliances that are rated as being transitory or exceedingly temporary may be discounted from taking on the role of being a hot spare device.

Interface can receive data from a multitude of sources such as for example data associated with a particular client application service user client device and or entity involved with a portion of a transaction and thereafter convey the received information to storage manager further analysis. Additionally interface can receive analyzed data from storage manager which then can be disseminated to the constituent devices that can form network topology .

Interface can provide various adapters connectors channels communication pathways etc. to integrate the various components included in system into virtually any operating system and or database system and or with one another. Additionally interface can provide various adapters connectors channels communication modalities etc. that provide for interaction with various components that can comprise system and or any other component external and or internal data and the like associated with system .

Storage manager can monitor the removal and or addition of components e.g. consumer and or electronic electrical appliances and or devices that currently constitute or once comprised or were included in network topology . Storage manager on discovering the absence and or addition of a previously affiliated device and or presence of a newly added device can identify and classify the device the size and unused capacity of storage media associated with added and or previously associated device and the type of storage media being employed by the detective device. Based at least in part on the foregoing data storage manager can construct aggregate and or reorder the previously identified storage media into logical redundant piles of inexpensive disks devices. Moreover in reordering constructing and or establishing logical redundant piles of inexpensive disks devices storage manager can employ artificial intelligence and or machine learning components and or techniques databases and statistical and or probabilistic methodologies to contemporaneously and or concurrently establish precedence in relation to ordering or ranking of storage media and the nominating of storage media to undertake the role of hot spares.

Storage manager can initialize evaluate appraise reinitialize reevaluate reappraise and or revise tables and or other associated data structures to reflect any changes that storage manager may detect and or identify during the course of operations. Further storage manager can employ one or more of disk striping disk mirroring or duplexing utilization of dedicated parity distributed parity and or duel distributed parity. Additionally storage manager can effectuate the distribution and allocation of previously persisted newly obtained e.g. from a newly acquired device one that has never been associated with the network topology and or currently acquired data over the entirety of the established pile to ensure the integrity easy accessibility and continued redundancy of the data.

Identification component on detecting removals and or additions to network can identify and classify the type of device e.g. handheld device refrigerator with confederated flash memory and LCD display portable multimedia playback and or recording device etc. ascertain the total size and or the potential unused capacity of storage media associated with newly added and or previously associated device and or appliance and determine the type of media being utilized by the added and or previously associated device and or appliance. Once identification component has ascertained the foregoing information such information can be conveyed to allocation component for further analysis and utilization.

Allocation component based on the data for instance solicited obtained derived and or dynamically determined by an identification component can where an extant pile does not exist assemble and or logically fabricate a redundant pile of inexpensive disks devices. Alternatively and or additionally where a pile currently exists allocation component can reorder storage media within the extant redundant pile to ensure improved redundancy accessibility and or overall storage facilities for data within the established pile and newly acquired and or obtaining data e.g. from a newly acquired device .

Allocation component can utilize disk data striping disk mirroring or duplexing dedicated parity distributed parity and or duel distributed parity to ensure the consistency and integrity of data stored persisted within an established or newly constructed pile. Moreover allocation component can also effectuate distribution of data to various disparate storage media and or devices that can comprise the redundant pile of inexpensive devices disks.

It is to be appreciated that store can be for example volatile memory or non volatile memory or can include both volatile and non volatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation non volatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM electrically programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which can act as external cache memory. By way of illustration rather than limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM . Store of the subject systems and methods is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory. In addition it is to be appreciated that store can be a server a database a hard drive and the like.

The independent components may be used to further fill out or span an information space and the dependent components may be employed in combination to improve quality of common information recognizing that all sensor input data may be subject to error and or noise. In this context data fusion techniques employed by data fusion component may include algorithmic processing of sensor input data to compensate for inherent fragmentation of information because particular phenomena may not be observed directly using a single sensing input modality. Thus data fusion provides a suitable framework to facilitate condensing combining evaluating and or interpreting available sensed or received information in the context of a particular application.

In view of the foregoing it is readily apparent that utilization of the context component to consider and analyze extrinsic information can substantially facilitate determining meaning of sets of inputs.

Users can also interact with regions to select and provide information via various devices such as a mouse roller ball keypad keyboard and or voice activation for example. Typically the mechanism such as a push button or the enter key on the keyboard can be employed subsequent to entering the information in order to initiate for example a query. However it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not so limited. For example nearly highlighting a checkbox can initiate information conveyance. In another example a command line interface can be employed. For example the command line interface can prompt e.g. via text message on a display and an audio tone the user for information via a text message. The user can then provide suitable information such as alphanumeric input corresponding to an option provided in the interface prompt or an answer to a question posed in the prompt. It is to be appreciated that the command line interface can be employed in connection with a graphical user interface and or application programming interface API . In addition the command line interface can be employed in connection with hardware e.g. video cards and or displays e.g. black and white and EGA with limited graphic support and or low bandwidth communication channels.

In view of the exemplary systems shown and described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flow chart of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter. Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computers.

The claimed subject matter can be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more components. Generally program modules can include routines programs objects data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined and or distributed as desired in various aspects.

The claimed subject matter can be implemented via object oriented programming techniques. For example each component of the system can be an object in a software routine or a component within an object. Object oriented programming shifts the emphasis of software development away from function decomposition and towards the recognition of units of software called objects which encapsulate both data and functions. Object Oriented Programming OOP objects are software entities comprising data structures and operations on data. Together these elements enable objects to model virtually any real world entity in terms of its characteristics represented by its data elements and its behavior represented by its data manipulation functions. In this way objects can model concrete things like people and computers and they can model abstract concepts like numbers or geometrical concepts.

The benefit of object technology arises out of three basic principles encapsulation polymorphism and inheritance. Objects hide or encapsulate the internal structure of their data and the algorithms by which their functions work. Instead of exposing these implementation details objects present interfaces that represent their abstractions cleanly with no extraneous information. Polymorphism takes encapsulation one step further the idea being many shapes one interface. A software component can make a request of another component without knowing exactly what that component is. The component that receives the request interprets it and figures out according to its variables and data how to execute the request. The third principle is inheritance which allows developers to reuse pre existing design and code. This capability allows developers to avoid creating software from scratch. Rather through inheritance developers derive subclasses that inherit behaviors that the developer then customizes to meet particular needs.

In particular an object includes and is characterized by a set of data e.g. attributes and a set of operations e.g. methods that can operate on the data. Generally an object s data is ideally changed only through the operation of the object s methods. Methods in an object are invoked by passing a message to the object e.g. message passing . The message specifies a method name and an argument list. When the object receives the message code associated with the named method is executed with the formal parameters of the method bound to the corresponding values in the argument list. Methods and message passing in OOP are analogous to procedures and procedure calls in procedure oriented software environments.

However while procedures operate to modify and return passed parameters methods operate to modify the internal state of the associated objects by modifying the data contained therein . The combination of data and methods in objects is called encapsulation. Encapsulation provides for the state of an object to only be changed by well defined methods associated with the object. When the behavior of an object is confined to such well defined locations and interfaces changes e.g. code modifications in the object will have minimal impact on the other objects and elements in the system.

Each object is an instance of some class. A class includes a set of data attributes plus a set of allowable operations e.g. methods on the data attributes. As mentioned above OOP supports inheritance a class called a subclass may be derived from another class called a base class parent class etc. where the subclass inherits the data attributes and methods of the base class. The subclass may specialize the base class by adding code which overrides the data and or methods of the base class or which adds new data attributes and methods. Thus inheritance represents a mechanism by which abstractions are made increasingly concrete as subclasses are created for greater levels of specialization.

As used in this application the terms component and system are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical and or magnetic storage medium an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Artificial intelligence based systems e.g. explicitly and or implicitly trained classifiers can be employed in connection with performing inference and or probabilistic determinations and or statistical based determinations as in accordance with one or more aspects of the claimed subject matter as described hereinafter. As used herein the term inference infer or variations in form thereof refers generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines . . . can be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the claimed subject matter.

Furthermore all or portions of the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a system method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Some portions of the detailed description have been presented in terms of algorithms and or symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and or representations are the means employed by those cognizant in the art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others equally skilled. An algorithm is here generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of acts leading to a desired result. The acts are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Typically though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical and or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and or otherwise manipulated.

It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the foregoing discussion it is appreciated that throughout the disclosed subject matter discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining and or displaying and the like refer to the action and processes of computer systems and or similar consumer and or industrial electronic devices and or machines that manipulate and or transform data represented as physical electrical and or electronic quantities within the computer s and or machine s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the machine and or computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission and or display devices.

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a computer operable to execute the disclosed system. In order to provide additional context for various aspects thereof and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the claimed subject matter can be implemented. While the description above is in the general context of computer executable instructions that may run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject matter as claimed also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the claimed subject matter may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital video disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

With reference again to the exemplary environment for implementing various aspects includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive may also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the claimed subject matter.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment and further that any such media may contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the disclosed and claimed subject matter.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adaptor may facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adaptor .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11x a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet .

Wi Fi networks can operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands. IEEE 802.11 applies to generally to wireless LANs and provides 1 or 2 Mbps transmission in the 2.4 GHz band using either frequency hopping spread spectrum FHSS or direct sequence spread spectrum DSSS . IEEE 802.11a is an extension to IEEE 802.11 that applies to wireless LANs and provides up to 54 Mbps in the 5 GHz band. IEEE 802.11a uses an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM encoding scheme rather than FHSS or DSSS. IEEE 802.11b also referred to as 802.11 High Rate DSSS or Wi Fi is an extension to 802.11 that applies to wireless LANs and provides 11 Mbps transmission with a fallback to 5.5 2 and 1 Mbps in the 2.4 GHz band. IEEE 802.11 g applies to wireless LANs and provides 20 Mbps in the 2.4 GHz band. Products can contain more than one band e.g. dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

Referring now to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of an exemplary computing environment for processing the disclosed architecture in accordance with another aspect. The system includes one or more client s . The client s can be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The client s can house cookie s and or associated contextual information by employing the claimed subject matter for example.

The system also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform transformations by employing the claimed subject matter for example. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The data packet may include a cookie and or associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. cookie s and or associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

What has been described above includes examples of the disclosed and claimed subject matter. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components and or methodologies but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the claimed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

