---

title: System and method for delivering geographically restricted content, such as over-air broadcast programming, to a recipient over a network, namely the internet
abstract: A system and method for delivering geographically restricted content, including but not limited to over-air broadcast programming, to a recipient over a computer network, namely the Internet. The content is only delivered over the computer network if the recipient's computer or network device requesting the content over the network is verified to be located in the geographically restricted area. A conventional tuner is employed by the recipient's computer to receive one or more over-air signals having a broadcast range deemed to be synonymous with the geographically restricted area for the requested content. If the tuner is able to receive such over-air signal(s), the requested content is delivered over the network to the recipient's computer. This is because the recipient is known to be physically located in the geographically restricted area by the ability of the tuner to receive the over-air signal(s).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08346230&OS=08346230&RS=08346230
owner: Capitol Broadcasting Company, Inc.
number: 08346230
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070306
---
The present invention relates to a system and method for delivering geographically restricted content including but not limited to over air broadcast programming to a recipient computing device over a computer network namely the Internet.

Television and radio broadcasting is regulated in the United States and abroad due to the limited frequencies available for transmission. As a result any person or entity that wishes to operate a television or radio broadcast station in the United States must apply for and receive a government issued license in order to reserve a transmission frequency for its broadcast signal. Broadcast licenses granted by the FCC provide a geographic scope or area that limits the permissible range of each station s broadcast signal. The broadcast station must configure its broadcast signal to limit the broadcast signal range to the geographic scope of the license. A recipient s tuner must typically be within the geographic scope of the broadcaster s license to properly receive the over air broadcast signal from the local broadcast station.

From a technology standpoint cable providers can retransmit local broadcast programming over a physical line such as coaxial cable having a known geographic reach or area. This method of controlling distribution of a cable signal enables the cable provider to meet the geographic restrictions on local broadcast programming. Satellite providers are able to retransmit broadcast signals to dedicated receivers pre programmed with a particular customer billing address. In this way technology is used to limit customer access to program within geographic restrictions in place on such local broadcast programming.

Today consumers often receive digital content via the Internet rather than using tuners to receive over air signals. Content and programming information such as national or local news weather financial information sports information and entertainment programming can be obtained by visiting any number of websites. Songs and movies are commonly ordered and either downloaded or streamed over the Internet to a recipient s computer for playing or viewing. Currently a local broadcast station does not have available technology to supply over air broadcasts over the Internet and restrict such Internet viewing to a limited geographic area. This is because Internet access is not geographically limiting like over air reception and therefore an Internet user physically located in the local broadcast station s area of license cannot be distinguished from a recipient physically located outside such area.

The present invention is a system and method for delivering geographically restricted content including but not limited to over air broadcast programming content to a recipient computing device over a computer network namely the Internet. The content is only delivered over the computer network if the recipient s computer or network device requesting the content over the network is verified to be located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content. A conventional tuner is employed by the recipient s computer to receive one or more over air signals having a broadcast range deemed to be synonymous with or sufficiently proximate to the geographically restricted area for the requested content. If the tuner is able to receive such over air signal s the requested content is delivered over the network to the recipient s computer. This is because the recipient is known to be physically located in the geographically restricted area by the ability of the tuner to receive the over air signal s . If a recipient is not located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content the tuner will not be able to receive the over air signal s representative of the recipient being located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content. Thus a recipient s computing device that is not able to receive the over air signal confirming the recipient is within the geographically restricted area will not receive the requested content over the computer network.

One or more content servers are employed to distribute the geographically restricted content to a requesting recipient over the computer network. A broadcast station may actually provide the content server. In this regard the broadcast station provides one or more servers coupled to a computer network to host requests for streaming and or downloading the requested content to requesting recipients over the computer network. The server s may be accessible by Internet Protocol IP addressing. The distributed content may be over air broadcast programming from a broadcast station or any other type content such as audio files and video presentations as examples. The content requested for delivery over the computer network may be the same content broadcasted by the broadcast station over the air within the geographic limitations of the broadcast station s FCC license. If permitted the content is packaged by the content server into data packets and sent out over the computer network to the requesting recipient. Receiving over air broadcast programming content over a computer network will not typically suffer from broadcast reception related issues which may be caused by interference or less than optimal broadcast signal coverage from the broadcast station s antennas.

The recipient employs a computer or other network device coupled to the computer network to request access to the content from the content servers s . The recipient s computer may employ a browser that accesses the content server s via a uniform resource location URL web address translated into the IP address of the content server. Information about over air signals received by the tuner coupled to the recipient computer is used to determine whether or not the recipient is physically located in the area represented by the geographic restriction for the requested content.

The tuner associated with the recipient computer may be adapted to receiver over air broadcast signals from a broadcast station as the particular type of over air signal s . The present invention and tuner are not limited to receiving an over air broadcast signal s as the particular type of over air signal s used to determine if a recipient is located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content. If the tuner is adapted to receiver over air broadcast signal s as the method of determining if the recipient is located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content the tuner may be a radio tuner e.g. FM i.e. 88 108 Mhz or AM i.e. 500 1500 kHz a television signal tuner e.g. UHF i.e. 470 to 806 MHz VHF i.e. 54 72 MHz 76 88 MHz and 174 216 MHz or both in one embodiment of the present invention. In one embodiment Radio Broadcasting Data Service RBDS information is extracted from a received over air FM radio broadcast signal to determine if the recipient computer is physically located within the geographically restricted area for the requested content. Station information Service SIS data embedded in a high definition HD radio broadcast signal may also be used to identify the broadcast station and determine if the recipient computer is physically located within the geographically restricted area for the requested content. In another embodiment the tuner or recipient computer extracts Program and System Information Protocol PSIP information and more specifically the transport stream identifier TSID information or the broadcast station call letters for digital television identifying the broadcast station from an over air television broadcast signal to determine if the recipient computer is physically located within the geographically restricted area for the requested content. The television broadcast signal may be an analog or digital signal. Using RBDS SIS or PSIP data to determine a broadcast station identification may be a preferred method to determine the physical location of the recipient computer because this information is typically already included by the broadcast station in radio and television broadcast signals without having to employ modifications to existing broadcasting equipment. However the broadcast station can also purposefully insert an analog or digital signal or flag in over air broadcast signals that can be extracted by the tuner to identify the broadcasting station and thus the location of the recipient computer in lieu of using embedded RBDS SIS and or PSIP information.

The tuner associated with the recipient computer may also or alternatively be adapted to receiver over air signals having transmission frequencies outside AM FM UHF VHF broadcast signal frequencies. For example Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX is a standard to enable the delivery of last mile wireless broadband access as an alternative to cable or DSL broadband access. WiMAX has a range of up to thirty miles with a typical cell radius of four to six miles. Either receipt of a WiMAX signal or a special coding or signal embedded into a WiMAX signal may be received over air by a tuner associated with the recipient computer to determine if the recipient computer is located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content. Other examples include signals in the 700 MHz spectrum which may be utilized to deliver content to mobile phones. The 700 MHZ spectrum includes signals that can be broadcast by television broadcast stations like UHF and VHF signals but is a spectrum that may television broadcast stations have vacated or no longer use for programming broadcasts. The present invention is not limited to any particular type of over air signal to determine if the recipient s computer is located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content.

The tuner may be embedded within a recipient computer or provided in the form of a peripheral device coupled to the recipient computer. For example the tuner may contain a universal serial bus USB connection that plugs into a USB port on the recipient computer. The tuner may be configured to constantly receive and provide information about receipt of over air broadcasting signal s for verification of the recipient s physical location within the geographically restricted area of the requested content. Over air signal criteria is provided to the tuner to determine which over air signal s to tune in to consistent with the geographically restricted area of the requested content. Over air information based on receipt of information embedded in a tuned over air signal is used for verification of the recipient s physical location and may be constantly provided by the recipient s computer to the content server s as a condition for continued streaming of content to the recipient s computer.

Other optional methods may be employed to ensure a recipient is located in the geographically restricted area of the requested content. These methods include but are not limited to requiring a recipient to enter credit or debit card information for accessing and or verification of the recipient s billing address determining the recipient s location using a GPS receiver coupled to the recipient computer and or using reverse IP address lookup on the IP address assigned to the recipient computer.

The recipient s computer may access content including but not limited to over air broadcast programming from the content server s using browser based web services or using an application programming interface API software application downloaded from the content server s to the recipient computer. The recipient may also be required to first establish a user account with the content server before geographically restricted content can be accessed over the network. The account information may include user identification and or billing information. Identification and billing information may be used to bill the recipient for access to content over the network and or to provide user specific advertising to fund either wholly or partially the business model and expenses of the broadcasting station providing the content and or over air broadcast programming over the computer network.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate the scope of the present invention and realize additional aspects thereof after reading the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments in association with the accompanying drawing figures.

The embodiments set forth below represent the necessary information to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and illustrate the best mode of practicing the invention. Upon reading the following description in light of the accompanying drawing figures those skilled in the art will understand the concepts of the invention and will recognize applications of these concepts not particularly addressed herein. It should be understood that these concepts and applications fall within the scope of the disclosure and the accompanying claims.

The present invention is a system and method for delivering geographically restricted content including but not limited to over air broadcast programming content to a recipient computing device over a computer network namely the Internet. The content is only delivered over the computer network if the recipient s computer or network device requesting the content over the network is verified to be located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content. A conventional tuner is employed by the recipient s computer to receive one or more over air signals having a broadcast range deemed to be synonymous with or sufficiently proximate to the geographically restricted area for the requested content. If the tuner is able to receive such over air signal s the requested content is delivered over the network to the recipient s computer. This is because the recipient is known to be physically located in the geographically restricted area by the ability of the tuner to receive the over air signal s . If a recipient is not located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content the tuner will not be able to receive the over air signal s representative of the recipient being located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content. Thus a recipient s computing device that is not able to receive the over air signal confirming the recipient is within the geographically restricted area will not receive the requested content over the computer network.

The geographically restricted area for the requested content may be a Designated Market Area DMA for the content. In other words the requested content may have a DMA by regulation geographic restrictions in accordance with compulsory license restrictions and or geographic restrictions according to rights content owners. The geographically restricted area may also be called or known as a signal area. The term geographically restricted area is used throughout this application to include but not limited to a DMA or a signal area.

A recipient also called a user can remotely request content including but not limited to an over air broadcast signal containing programming via a communication computer network such as the Internet from a broadcast station . The broadcast station may be any type of broadcast station that broadcasts over air signals including but not limited to FM radio and television. The recipient employs a networked computing device such as but not limited to a personal computer a user computer and a television set top box to request content. The user controls the computing device to request content over the computer network . In a preferred embodiment the networked computer device is a user personal computer also referred to as user computer and the computer network is the Internet which may be a TCP IP based network. The user computer may also take the form of a mobile device a cellular phone a personal digital assistant PDA and a personal messaging device PMP as other examples. The network may be a remote communication link or any type of network and may include any type of communication protocol including but not limited to telephone dial up wireless digital subscribe line DSL cable modem etc. The user computer employs TCP IP based communications to send and receive messages over the network .

The user computer either includes a local tuner to receive over air broadcast signals . The tuner is either internal to the user computer or coupled via an external connection to the user computer . When the user requests network access to geographically restricted content from the broadcast station the user computer establishes a network connection to the network via an Internet Service Provider ISP . The user computer communicates data packet messages using a IP address established for a broadcast station server as the destination address. The ISP communicates data packet messages from the user computer over the network to an ISP used by the broadcast station which is turn relays the messages to one or more content or broadcast station servers sitting on the broadcast station s IP address. The broadcast station server establishes connections or sessions using services such as web services or an application program interface API software with user computers to receive requests and provide access to content provided by the broadcast station including but not limited to over air programming. The broadcast station server s is adapted to provide content based programming and or services to the user as will be discussed throughout this application. This content may be streamed from a delivery network or may be accessed from a memory database if the content was previously recorded and stored.

Note that the present invention is not limited to broadcast programming content in particular. The present invention may be employed to distribute other types of content including but not limited to audio programming songs video programming and video presentations as examples. Further note that the present invention is not limited to the content server being provided by a broadcast station . The content server could include a corporate server an audio server a video server an audio video server and a music server as other examples. The computer network is not limited to a TCP IP based network. The computer network may be a content delivery network a dedicated line network a public network a private network a corporate network or a public switched telephone network PSTN as examples.

In the preferred embodiment the broadcast station server is coupled to over air programming content transmitted over air by the broadcast station . In this manner the broadcast station server can either store the over air programming content in the database to provide to the user at a later time or provide streaming of over air broadcast programming content in real time to the user computer over the network . The broadcast station server can be programmed via a local terminal by broadcast station personnel to set various options and features regarding performance and delivery options for providing content to user computers over the network .

Prior to the present invention the broadcast station typically only communicated over air programming content to a control system . The control system passed the content to a modulator to modulate the content onto a carrier signal having the desired frequency to form a modulated broadcast signal. The modulated broadcast signal is amplified by a power amplifier . The amplified over air broadcast signal is communicated to an antenna tower that broadcasts the amplified over air broadcast signal over air in the vicinity of the broadcast station according to the power output levels of the power amplifier and the antenna tower design. For some broadcast stations where obstructions such as mountains may be located in the broadcast area one or more translators which include receivers for receiving the over air broadcast signal and power amplifiers for amplifying the received over air broadcast signal may be employed to carry the over air broadcast signal further out from the broadcast station according to the geographically restricted area permitted under the broadcast station s FCC license.

Note that translators are separately licensed by the FCC and thus carry their own unique identifier. This unique identifier can still be employed to determine if the user computer is located in the geographically restricted area for the required content. For the remainder of this application reference to identifying the broadcast station is used to either refer to identification of the broadcast station or the identifier of the translator without distinction. Both are included methods of the present invention.

With the present invention a user can also receive this same over air programming content broadcast by the broadcast station over the computer network in addition to receiving the programming content by over air reception via the over air broadcast signal . The tuner is coupled to the user computer and receives the over air broadcast signal . The over air broadcast signal contains information that identifies the broadcast station transmitting the over air broadcast signal . Thus the area where the tuner and user computer are physically located can be determined by identifying the broadcast station . If the tuner can receive the over air broadcast signal this is an indication that the tuner and the user computer are geographically located in the broadcast range of the broadcast station . In response the broadcast station server authorizes the over air broadcast programming content to be provided over the network to the user computer .

Because the broadcast range of the broadcast station is controlled to be within a designated geographic licensing range permitted by the FCC the tuner by its receipt of the over air broadcast signal and the user computer are likewise known to be in the licensing range of the broadcast station . The user computer is permitted to receive over air broadcast programming content from the broadcast station in this instance. Receipt of over air broadcast programming content via the computer network may be more desirable. For example poor signal reception which may be caused by interference or less than optimal broadcast signal coverage from the broadcast station s antennas may prevent less than optimal reception using a traditional tuner. Receiving over air broadcast programming content over the computer network will not suffer from broadcast reception related issues if sufficient bandwidth exists on the computer network .

Note the broadcast station and broadcast station server embodiment illustrated in is an exemplary embodiment. The present invention is applicable to any content server that desires to communicate geographically restricted content over a computer network. The content may be broadcast programming or any other type of content or programming.

If the requested content is geographically restricted it is determined if the user computer is located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content decision . This is determined based on the ability of the user computer employing the tuner to receive an over air broadcast signal transmitted within the geographically restricted area. If the user computer is not located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content access is denied step and the process ends step . If the user computer is located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content the broadcast station server downloads or streams the requested content over the computer network to the user computer step until the request is fully performed and or the session established by the user computer is no longer active decision .

The remainder of the description of this application explains the various methods by which the user computer and broadcast station interact to access geographically restricted content from the broadcast station over the network . The content may be over air broadcast programming content broadcast by the broadcast station as the over air broadcast signal or other content generated either locally at the broadcast station or retrieved from external sources. Various methods may be employed to analyze over air broadcast signals received by the tuner to determine the physical location of the tuner and thus the user computer . Additional methods may be employed in addition to analyzing over air broadcast signal s received by the tuner to ensure that the user and the user computer are physically located in the geographically restricted area of the broadcast station s license from which the requested geographically restricted content is obtained over the network as opposed to over air reception.

The user computer first makes a download request for the programming content to the broadcast station server over the network typically using either web based services or API software previously downloaded to the user computer from the broadcast station server step . The broadcast station server determines whether the requested content is geographically restricted step . If so the broadcast station server retrieves the over air broadcast signal acquisition criteria from the database which is information about one or more over air broadcast signals to be acquired by the tuner having the same or equivalent broadcast range as the geographically restricted area for the requested content step . The over air broadcast signal acquisition criteria is provided to the user computer so that tuner can be controlled to tune in to the designated over air broadcast signal s to determine if the user computer is physically located in the licensing area of the requested programming content step . Note that the over air broadcast signal acquisition criteria does not have to include the same broadcast signal that carries the requested content it may or may not.

Next the user computer communicates an over air broadcast acquisition request to the tuner using the over air broadcast signal acquisition criteria received from the broadcast station server step . The tuner returns over air broadcast signal acquisition information back to the user computer indicating whether the over air broadcast signal s provided by the broadcast station server in the over air broadcast acquisition criteria could be accessed step . The user computer processes over air broadcast signal acquisition information received from the tuner step . A flag within the user computer may be set or updated to indicate successful reception of the over air broadcast signal or identifying information embedded therein by the tuner to prove the user computer is within the geographically restricted area for the requested content. This is because the system may use information embedded within the over air broadcast signal received by the tuner rather than reception of the signal itself. Various methods of obtaining embedded information within the over air broadcast signal can be used to provide identifying information to determine the geographic location of the tuner and thus the user computer and will be discussed in more detail below.

The over air broadcast signal acquisition information received from the tuner is communicated to the broadcast station server for processing step . The broadcast station server determines if the over air broadcast acquisition information was obtained for the geographically restricted area for the requested content step . If so the requested content is downloaded or streamed over the network to the user computer step . From there the process iterates by repeating steps through to continue receiving over air broadcast acquisition information from the tuner and providing this information to the broadcast station server as a condition of continued receipt of requested content. This continues until the user computer s session with the broadcast station server is terminated steps .

The received signal is also coupled to a data decoder to extract digital data embedded within the over air broadcast signal . This digital data may include identifying information about the broadcast station that is responsible for the over air broadcast signal transmission such as identifying information embedded in Radio Broadcast Data Service RBDS Station Information Service SIS or Program and System Information Protocol PSIP data for example. The digital data is provided to a microprocessor via data lines . From there the digital data can be communicated to an optional display . The digital data can be also stored in memory and is communicated externally from the tuner through an input output buffer to the user computer in the form of over air broadcast signal acquisition information . This over air broadcast signal acquisition information is information noted in the flow diagram of that may be communicated to the broadcast station server to determine if the user computer is physically located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content.

Next it is determined if the extracted geographic information indicates that the tuner and thus the user computer is located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content. If so a flag may be set to indicate that the user computer and or the session with the broadcast station server is authorized to receive the requested content over the network step . If not the process goes to step of where access to the requested content is denied since the geographic location of the user computer could not be verified as being physically located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content.

The standard for the Radio Broadcast Data System RBDS adopted by the National Radio Systems Committee in NRSC 4 requires FM radio broadcasters to provide their unique FCC call sign in the form of a hexadecimal Program Identification PI code. Thus extraction of the PI code from an over air FM broadcast signal can be used to identify the broadcast station band thus determine the location of the user computer to control granting access to geographically restricted content. The PI code is transmitted as the first block in every data group of the RBDS data making it the most frequently repeated data. This allows for shorter and more reliable acquisition of the PI code.

An example of this is shown in which is the data format for RBDS group type A or a program type name PTYN . There it is shown that a PI field is the header of the data for the PTYN data . The PI field contains the PI code. This information can be extracted by the tuner and or the user computer to identify the broadcast station . For example if the PI field contains the call letters WRAL FM this means that the originator of the received FM broadcast signal is the WRAL broadcast station located in Raleigh N.C. A database can be accessed to correlate the broadcast station identification information in the PI field with the FCC mandated broadcast area of broadcast station . This information can be used such as by the tuner the user computer and or the broadcast station server to determine the physical location of the user computer i.e. Raleigh N.C. area for PI information WRAL FM . This is because the tuner must be physically located in the broadcast area of the broadcast station to receive its over air FM broadcast signal .

More information on RBDS can be found at The Radio Data System RDS in Europe and the Radio Broadcast Data System RBDS in the USA What are the differences and how can receivers cope with both systems at http www.rds.org.uk rdsfrdsrbds.html and the definition of Radio Data System in Wikipedia at http en.wikipedia.org wiki Radi Data System both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

A high definition HD over air radio broadcast signal may also be used to identify the broadcast station . The standard for In band On channel Digital Radio Broadcasting adopted by the National Radio Systems Committee in NRSC 5 A commonly referred to as HD Radio allows for AM FM radio station broadcasters to provide their unique FCC call sign FCC facility number and three dimensional geographic station location within Station Information Service SIS data. SIS data is transmitted via a dedicated logical channel within the RF transmission subsystem. The standard specifically states that SIS can be considered a built in service that is readily available on all IBOC digital radio stations. For more information on SIS see the National Radio Systems Committee document NRSC 5 A 5.1.2 September 2005 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Other audio encoding techniques may be embedded FM radio broadcast signals by broadcast stations to determine the location of the user and the user computer and thus whether the user computer is located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content. For example the Nielsen s Audio Video Encoding Technique NAVE which is more fully disclosed in The Nielsen Audio Video Encoder NAVE Questions Answers at http www.nielsenmedia.com forclients APMeter file NAVEQA.pdf and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety embeds a very small amount of audio energy in louder portions of an audio signal to ensure the non audibility of the code. The tuner can decode a received audio broadcast signal to retrieve the NAVE code if present if the NAVE code is used as the over air broadcast acquisition criteria. The NAVE coding survives AC 3 and MPEG 2 compression encoding.

In a similar manner a television broadcast over air signal e.g. high definition signal or information embedded therein may be used as the over air broadcast signal acquisition criteria to determine if the user computer is located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content. Similar to radio broadcast signals data may be included or embedded in television broadcast signals. In particular Program and System Information Protocol PSIP data is embedded in a digital television broadcast signal and may also be embedded in an analog television signal. Within PSIP data a transport stream identifier TSID is an included number that is unique to each broadcast station e.g. WRAL is . PSIP data embedded in a digital television broadcast signal also includes the unique call letters of the broadcast station e.g. WRAL . illustrates the various types of information within the PSIP data that is embedded in either an analog or digital television broadcast signal and the various cycle times in which the PSIP data is included.

Master Guide Table MGT data is included in the PSIP data which provides information on all the other PSIP tables including table sizes and version numbers of updatable tables. The Virtual Channel Table TVCT data provides information on all the channels that are or will be on line including such items as channel name navigation identifier stream components and types. Event Information Table EIT data is included for each event or TV program associated with each of the virtual channels. Each EIT covers a period of three hours. The total number of EITs available is one hundred twenty eight. EIT 0 data covers the current programs EIT 1 covers the next three hours and so on. System Time Table STT data fits in one MPEG packet and provides time of day information. Rating Region Table RRT data is designed to transmit program rating information for any country that may adopt the standard.

More information on PSIP is disclosed in ATSC Recommended Practice Program and System Information Protocol Implementation Guidelines for Broadcasters found at http www.atsc.org standards a69.pdf which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Note that for embodiment of the present invention that use an over air broadcast signal as the particular type of signal to determine if the user computer is in the geographically restricted area of the requested content the present invention is not limited to a particular type of over air broadcast signal being used. Also note that the present invention is not limited to retrieval of embedded RBDS data SIS data PSIP data or NAVE coding data. Any type of special coding or data may be included in the over air broadcast signal to by received by the tuner associated with the user computer including but not limited to audio coding data video coding data analog coding data and digital coding data.

In summary for the over air signal being an over air broadcast signal embodiment the tuner coupled to the user computer can be provided with over air broadcast signal acquisition criteria. The over air broadcast signal acquisition criteria provide instructions on which over air broadcast signal s for the tuner to access to confirm the user computer is physically located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content before requested content is transmitted by a broadcast station server over the network such as the Internet. The tuner is able to obtain information within the received over air broadcast signal that identifies the broadcasting station and provides the identification information in the form of over air broadcast signal acquisition information . If the broadcast station is identified as having a broadcast range within or synonymous to the geographically restricted area for the requested content it is known that the user computer is physically located in the geographically restricted area for the restricted content sufficient for the content to be communicated over the network to the user computer .

The process starts by the user computer requesting over air broadcast signal acquisition information from the tuner based on the over air broadcast signal acquisition criteria. The over air broadcast signal acquisition information is used to verify the user computer location as previously discussed step . The tuner returns the over air broadcast signal acquisition information obtained based on the over air broadcast acquisition criteria sought step . The over air broadcast acquisition criteria may be stored in memory of the user computer and may be generated based on the user s physical address information known by the user computer . The user computer can look up the correct over air broadcast signal acquisition criteria to be used by the tuner based on the user s address or location information. The user computer may process the over air broadcast signal acquisition information and or set flags in memory to indicate the physical location or broadcast area where the user computer is verified to be located according to the tuner reception of the over air broadcast signal step . Again note that the over air broadcast signal acquisition criteria does not have to include an over air broadcast signal that carries the same content as the user requested content over the network from the broadcast station server .

Thereafter the user computer makes a download or stream request for the content to the broadcast station server over the network typically using either web based services or API software previously downloaded to the user computer from the broadcast station server step . Included within the request is the over air broadcast signal acquisition information obtained from the tuner . The broadcast station server determines whether the requested content is geographically restricted step . If so the broadcast station server reviews the over air broadcast signal acquisition information to determine if the tuner is able to obtain information that could only be obtained by a tuner located in the same or equivalent geographically restricted areas for the requested content step . The requested content is then downloaded or streamed over the network to the user computer step . The user computer continues to obtain over air broadcast signal acquisition information from the tuner steps and communicate this information to the broadcast station server step step returning back to step to determine if the user computer remains in the geographically restricted area for receiving the requested content over the network as opposed to over air reception step . The process continues until the user computer session with the broadcast station server is terminated steps .

It may be desired by the broadcast station server to require the user to first establish a user account on the server before content will be provided to the user computer over the network . A user account may be used for various reasons including but not limited to identifying the user providing special services to the user obtaining billing information if the user is charged for receiving content over the network and or providing more target advertising to the user based on demographic information. is a flow diagram illustrating one example of the user requesting and establishing a new user account on the broadcast station server when a request is made for content over the computer network .

The process starts by the user computer requesting content from the broadcast station server over the network step . Because the user computer does not return identifying information about the user that indicates the user already has an established account on the broadcast station server step the broadcast station server generates and sends a new account registration web page to the user computer step . The user inputs new account information requested in the fields and various prompts in the registration web page. At this point the user computer may also request to receive over air broadcast signal acquisition information from the tuner based on over air broadcast signal acquisition criteria using information such as the user s physical address entered by the user or other location information for example steps . The user s location information may come from answers provided by the user in the registration web page. The user may provide their desired user id and password for subsequent access to the broadcast station server so the server can access the user s account. The user computer can then determine initially if the user is authorized to receive content from the broadcast station server over the network . If not the process can be discontinued without a user account being established.

If the user computer determines that a user account can be established for the user based on verification of the user s location as determined from the over air broadcast acquisition information the user computer transmits the new user account information to the broadcast station server to establish a user account for the user step . The broadcast station server creates the user account step and sends an acknowledgement of the user account creation to the user computer step .

The broadcast station server may provide content download and or streaming services via an API software package downloaded to the user computer in lieu of web based services. The broadcast station server may be configured to only allow downloading of an API software package for content requests over the network after the user has successfully established a user account and has logged in. When the user first establishes a user account the user will be logged in automatically after receiving the new account establishment acknowledgement step . In this regard after a user sends a content request to the broadcast station server step the broadcast station server verifies the validity of the user account step . The broadcast station server sends an API software download request prompt to the user to first download the API software to the user computer step . The user computer then returns a download request step and the broadcast station server downloads the API software to the user computer step . The user will then execute the API software resident on the user computer to communicate with the broadcast station server to request content over the network as previously discussed steps .

It may also be desired to use additional information indicative of the user s and the user computer s location in conjunction with over air broadcast signal acquisition information to determine if the user is within the geographically restricted area of the requested content. Over air broadcast signal acquisition information may still be received by the tuner even if the user computer is slightly outside the exact geographic boundaries of the broadcast station s broadcast area. Broadcasting areas provided in an FCC license may include sharp boundaries and borders that cannot be perfectly matched with broadcast signal transmission equipment and repeaters . Thus the tuner may still receive the proper over air broadcast signal acquisition information even though the user computer is technically outside the permitted broadcast area. In this regard one method of additionally verifying that the user is authorized to access the geographically restricted content from the broadcast station over the network is to verify the user s billing address using the user s credit or debit card account information.

The tuner associated with the recipient computer may also or alternatively be adapted to receiver over air signals having transmission frequencies outside AM FM UHF VHF broadcast signal frequencies. In this regard the over air broadcast signal acquisition criteria and the over air broadcast signal acquisition information would simply be over air acquisition criteria and over air signal acquisition information respectively. The operation of the present invention when using a non broadcast range over air signal based on air acquisition criteria and producing over air signal acquisition information may be as or similar described above for an over air broadcast signal in particular. The present invention and its examples disclosed herein are applicable for any over air signal that can be used to indicate whether a recipient is located in a geographically restricted area for the requested content.

For example Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX . WiMAx is a standard being developed to enable the delivery of last mile wireless broadband access as an alternative to cable or DSL broadband access. WiMAX has a range of up to 30 miles with a typical cell radius of four to six miles. WiMAX covers a couple of different frequency ranges. The IEEE 802.16 standard addresses frequencies from 10 GHz to 66 GHz. The IEEE 802.16a specification which is an extension of IEEE 802.16 covers bands in the 2 GHz to 10 GHz range. Either receipt of a WiMAX signal or a special coding or signal embedded into a WiMAX signal may be received over air by a tuner associated with the recipient computer to determine if the recipient computer is located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content.

Other examples include signals in the 700 MHz spectrum which may be utilized to deliver content to mobile phones. The 700 MHZ spectrum includes signals that can be broadcast by television broadcast stations like UHF and VHF signals but is a spectrum that may television broadcast stations have vacated or no longer use for programming broadcasts. The present invention is not limited to any particular type of over air signal to determine if the recipient s computer is located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content

The flowchart illustrated in provides additional user address determination and or verification in conjunction with the over air broadcast signal acquisition information checking provided in the flowchart of and or . In one embodiment after the over air broadcast signal acquisition information obtained by the tuner is verified as being proper for geographic restrictions for the requested content in decision in the user may also be prompted for their credit or debit card account information to verify the user s billing address. The billing address can be used to determine if the user s residence is located within the geographically restricted area for the content requested over the network . The user may have already been required to associate a credit or debit card account to establish their user account or the credit debit card account information may simply be requested from the user for billing address verification after content is requested over the network . Note that the broadcast station server can be configured to use the user s credit debit card account information solely for address determination verification without billing the user .

The user s credit or debit card account information such as account number expiration date and or billing address information is received from the user computer step . The information may be checked locally at the user computer or sent over the network to the broadcast station server for checking. The checking may consist of verification of the billing address provided by the user when creating their user account or may consist of using the card account information to look up the user s actual billing address via a database access. Before the user s card account information is checked against a database the zip code provided by the user may be checked decision . If the zip code is outside of geographically restricted areas for the requested content decision the user s request can be denied without having to access a card account database by returning to step in . If the user provided a zip code that is within the geographically restricted area for the requested content the account number and expiration date are used to access a third party database to verify or obtain the user s billing address step . Third parties provide subscription based services for obtaining and or verifying a user s billing address based on providing a credit debit card account information. If the credit debit card billing address and or zip code can be verified as being in the geographically restricted area of the requested content decision the broadcast station server provides the requested geographically restricted content to the user computer over the network step of . If not the request is denied step of . Note that the credit debit card billing address verification method may be used in addition to or in lieu of the over air broadcast signal acquisition information verification method see e.g. .

Other methods may be used to determine if the user is located in the geographically restricted area of the requested content for content delivery over the network . For example a global positioning system GPS receiver not shown may be coupled to the user computer similar to the tuner to determine the exact geographic coordinates of the user computer in conjunction with or in lieu of receiving and checking over air broadcast signal acquisition information . In one embodiment after the over air broadcast acquisition information obtained by the tuner is verified as being proper for the geographically restricted area for the requested content e.g. decision in the GPS coordinates of the user computer s are obtained using a GPS receiver step . If the GPS coordinates of the user computer are outside the geographically restricted area for the requested content decision access to the requested content over the network is denied step of . If the GPS coordinates of the user computer are inside the geographically restricted area for the requested content the broadcast station server provides the requested content over the network to the user computer step of . Note that the GPS coordinates may be used in addition to or in lieu of receiving the over air broadcast signal acquisition information verification method see e.g. .

Another example of technology that may be used in conjunction with or in lieu of the over air broadcast signal acquisition information checking provided in the flowchart of and or to determine if the user computer is located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content is use of reverse IP address lookup. When the user computer accesses the network in the example of an Internet network the user computer is assigned a unique IP address by the ISP . The IP address is associated with the physical address of the company that purchased the particular IP address or block of IP addresses. Thus by accessing a reverse IP database address to look up the associated physical address location information regarding the user computer can be determined. Although reverse IP address lookup is not as accurate as other methods because the ISP may be located in a different area from the user computer it is another method that can be used to control access to geographically restricted content if desired.

In one embodiment as illustrated in flowchart of after the over air broadcast acquisition information obtained by the tuner is verified as being proper for the licensing area in decision in the user computer s IP address is obtained step . The physical address associated with the IP address used by the user computer is obtained from a third party database using a reverse IP address lookup service step . If the physical address associated with the IP address used by the user computer is outside the geographically restricted area for the requested content over the network decision access is denied step of . If the physical address associated with the IP address used by the user computer is inside the geographically restricted area for the requested content over the network the broadcast station server provides the requested content over the network to the user computer step of . Note that the reverse IP address lookup method may be used in addition to or in lieu of the over air broadcast signal acquisition information verification method see e.g. .

Another example of technology that may be used in conjunction with or in lieu of the over air broadcast signal acquisition information checking provided in the flowchart of and or to determine if the user computer is located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content is use of the telephone number or area code used by the user computer to connect to the network . An example of this technology that may be employed by the present invention is disclosed in Patent Cooperation Treaty PCT Application No. PCT US01 08382 entitled On line Lottery Game System incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

When the user computer accesses the network in the example of an Internet network any automated number identifier ANI is generated by the telephone company to the ISP supporting the user computer connection to the network . The ANI is stored as caller identification information. The caller identification information such as the telephone number or just the area code portion of the telephone number is used to determine if the user computer is located in the geographically restricted area for the requested content.

In one embodiment as illustrated in the flowchart of after the over air broadcast acquisition information obtained by the tuner is verified as being proper for the licensing area in decision in the user computer s ANI information is obtained by the ISP from a telephone company and or third party database step . The physical address associated with the ANI information e.g. telephone number or area code of telephone number is used determined. If the physical address associated with the ANI information is outside the geographically restricted area for the requested content over the network decision access is denied step of . If the physical address associated with the ANI information is inside the geographically restricted area for the requested content over the network the broadcast station server provides the requested content over the network to the user computer step of . Note that the ANI lookup method may be used in addition to or in lieu of the over air broadcast signal acquisition information verification method see e.g. .

Those skilled in the art will recognize improvements and modifications to the preferred embodiments of the present invention. All such improvements and modifications are considered within the scope of the concepts disclosed herein and the claims that follow.

