---

title: Apparatus and method for treating impurities in air and materials
abstract: An apparatus and method for sanitizing, decontaminating, deodorizing, conditioning, drying, treating, cleaning, modifying and/or otherwise improving an atmosphere within a container. The container can be a bag or other housing for equipment, food and/or suitable material. Ozone is generated within an atmosphere that is exposed to the materials. The generated ozone is mixed with the atmosphere. At least a portion of the generated ozone is then removed from the mixed atmosphere. The apparatus and method of this invention can be used to treat contaminated sports equipment and the like, as well as to treat food storage atmospheres, such as those exposed to fresh fruits and vegetables.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08114358&OS=08114358&RS=08114358
owner: Primaira, LLC
number: 08114358
owner_city: Woburn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071121
---
This invention was made with government support under DOD Contract Number W911QY 07 C 0005. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention as provided in the contract.

This invention relates to a material and or air cleaning apparatus and a method for removing impurities from the air resulting in air that has been deodorized dried sanitized treated modified improved and or otherwise cleaned of undesired contaminants. More specifically this invention relates to an apparatus and a method that uses UV light to generate ozone uses the ozone to destroy impurities in the air and then uses UV light to destroy ozone so that damaging ozone does not contact the sensitive materials or surfaces being cleaned.

A wide range of sports equipment is designed and used to protect the human body from injury. Equipment pieces are relatively large bulky oddly shaped fitted with straps and difficult to wash and dry. In soccer a player wears shin guards and ankle guards to protect the lower leg. In hockey a player wears knee pads a chest protector elbow pads gloves a helmet and hockey pants. In football a player wears shoulder pads leg and hip pads a helmet a neck roll elbow pads and gloves. Bicyclists and roller blade skaters use helmets. Many sports require general or specialized footwear such as cleats sneakers spikes skates roller blades and the like. Workers can wear similar equipment.

Protective equipment can be worn with direct contact against a skin or a head surface. Whether the equipment directly contacts the human body or is separated by clothing or a piece of cloth sweat soaks into materials such as pads elastic material straps foam and other materials. If not properly dried or cleaned the sweat soaked equipment becomes a site for growth of bacteria mold mildew fungus and other microorganisms that can spread disease cause odor and or damage or discolor the equipment. The equipment and the bag bin or other storage container can become malodorous. Odors from the equipment can emanate from or through the container and make unpleasant the corresponding room such as a vehicle compartment. Merely blowing air across the equipment to dry the equipment can more broadly release odors from the evaporated sweat and moisture into the room house or other compartment. It is desirable to have an apparatus and or method for drying deodorizing and or sanitizing equipment quickly and conveniently.

Known products in the marketplace have addressed this need. Dhaemers U.S. Pat. No. 6 134 806 describes a portable sport equipment bag having an air distributor connected with a hose to a blower and an ozone generator operable to move pressurized air and ozone into the air distributor. The air distributor moves the air and ozone into the bag to dry the sports equipment contained within the bag to destroy bacteria molds and fungus in the bag. The ozone directly contacts the sports equipment which can be a serious problem because ozone can destroy many equipment materials such as when the ozone exists in air at concentrations that are high enough to kill undesirable microorganisms. When well mixed with contaminated air ozone can more effectively and efficiently oxidize contaminants. Also ozone is a lung irritant and can leak out of the equipment bag and dangerously be inhaled such as when the user opens the sports equipment bag. These safety issues can be serious enough to warrant alternative approaches.

Dhaemers U.S. Pat. No. 5 369 892 describes a dryer in the form of an armoire with an internal drying chamber for housing articles that are subjected to heated circulating air to remove moisture from the articles. Ultraviolet lamps within the drying chamber destroy contaminants in the air and on the air conditioning coils in the drying chamber. A similar configuration is taught by Liang U.S. Pat. No. 5 152 077 which is limited because contaminated materials must be in a direct line of sight of a UV light source in order to be sanitized. The clothes alone can restrict exposure between the material and the UV light. Air that circulates in the armoire cannot be deodorized.

There is a need for a convenient efficient cost effective and efficient method and apparatus for drying deodorizing and or sanitizing air and equipment particularly without damaging the equipment.

Many other types of products can benefit from being dried sanitized and deodorized such as toys used at home or in commercial or institutional settings including health care facilities day care centers and or schools. The materials used in toys and stuffed animals makes it difficult to clean them quickly and conveniently. Many toys need to be individually wiped with disinfectant to clean their surfaces. Disinfectants and wipes can be used to clean toys. These cleaning procedures are time consuming and burdensome.

There is a need for a method and apparatus for drying deodorizing and or sanitizing a variety of products quickly safely and or effectively with minimal physical or chemical impact to the products.

Ethylene gas CH accumulates during the transport and storage of fresh fruits and vegetables and thus causes a problem for commercial agriculture and consumers. Small amounts of ethylene sometimes less than 1 ppm can induce fruit ripening and can produce undesirable flavors such as bitterness colors such as yellowing or browning and textures such as softening and thus can increase susceptibility to disease. Certain fruits and vegetables naturally generate ethylene during a ripening cycle. Other fruits and vegetables are highly sensitive to the presence of ethylene but may or may not actually produce ethylene. The table in lists some fruits and vegetables and known ethylene production rates and sensitivities.

The amount of ethylene that produces undesirable amounts or characteristics varies with different fruits and vegetables but ethylene concentrations in the range of 0.1 10 ppm can produce a significant effect. There is a need for a system that removes ethylene from the air within a fruit or vegetable storage container while not damaging the fruits or vegetables.

Because there is significant industry value in maintaining fresh fruits and vegetables during transportation and storage some technologies have been researched developed and commercialized to control ethylene. These conventional methods and their limitations are shown in the table of .

There is a need for an alternative approach to ethylene control that would be less expensive consume less power and require less space.

It is one object of this invention to provide an apparatus and method for oxidizing the ethylene to carbon dioxide and water using UV generated ozone.

It is another object of this invention to produce ozone to destroy ethylene and then to dissociate the excess ozone back to oxygen to maintain acceptable levels of ozone within a shipping or storage container for example that carries fresh fruits and vegetables.

According to this invention ethylene can be oxidized in an ethylene control unit and or in ambient air of the storage container such as at a lower ozone concentration. This dual approach can maximize ethylene removal from the container air and or the produce packages. This dual approach can also minimize negative effects of ozone concentrations in an air handling system or in the produce itself. UV generated ozone can also be used to remove additional pathogens that can degrade produce quality such as with certain fungus or mold spores. The apparatus and method of this invention can meet application requirements of a wide range of container sizes and refrigeration or other environmental control systems.

The method and system of this invention can generate use and destroy ozone for example to remove ethylene and or other impurities in the air or atmosphere within fresh fruit and vegetable containers. In one embodiment of this invention ozone is both generated and destroyed by UV light rays. The ethylene removal apparatus and or method can be accomplished with a wide variety of known configurations of storage containers air flow patterns and or refrigeration units.

According to this invention it is possible to dry deodorize and sanitize materials and their surrounding air. The materials can be sports equipment stored in a sports bag or an equipment bin toys stored in a toy box and or fruits or vegetables stored in a refrigerator or produce storage container.

According to this invention it is possible to clean deodorize and sanitize materials by circulating cleaned and conditioned air across the materials. The contaminants that are transferred from the materials to the air are treated in an air cleaning unit. The cleaned air is circulated back across the materials such as in a convective manner. Air flow and or heat can be used to drive the contaminants from the materials into the air. The contaminants can be for example moisture volatile matter such as odors bacteria spores dirt or other gases liquids and or microorganisms.

The contaminants that are driven into an air stream can be drawn into a compact low cost effective cleaning unit where the contaminants are destroyed. The cleaned air can be re circulated back to the storage container.

This invention provides a method and device to generate use and ultimately at least partially destroy the generated ozone for decontamination deodorization and or conditioning of the air and or the materials. The air cleaning unit can be positioned inside a chamber of various suitable configurations or designs. Air that requires cleaning and deodorization is drawn from the chamber into the cleaning unit passes across an ozone generator such as a UV bulb that emits light rays in the UV wavelength that generates ozone. The ozone laden contaminated air can be further drawn through a mixing zone to establish enhanced contact between the generated ozone and the contaminants. The clean air is then drawn across a second UV bulb that emits in the UV wavelength that destroys ozone. Clean ozone free air is then reintroduced to the storage chamber.

One or more additional treatment devices may be placed in the chamber to heat dry cool or dilute the air stream that circulates through the air cleaning unit.

The system of this invention which includes the apparatus and or the method can produce ozone to destroy contaminants and then used to dissociate the excess ozone back to oxygen in order to maintain appropriate levels of ozone within the storage container. The system of this invention provides a number of significant benefits compared to existing technology.

Circulation of air and ozone through a well designed mixing unit can be more efficient at cleaning the air than by injecting gaseous ozone at non hazardous levels into still or calm air or other ambient conditions. It appears that at low concentrations of ozone random encounters with contaminants is too slow of a process. However there can be significant benefits to combining both of these methods to maximize benefits from ozone use.

This invention provides two opportunities to oxidize the odors and the microorganisms one in an air cleaning unit and the second such as at a lower ozone concentration in the ambient air of the storage container. This dual approach can better remove impurities from the air in the storage container and from surfaces of the materials. Ozone concentrations are relatively high in the air cleaning unit and the mixing rates between the ozone and the air is relatively high and thus the oxidation rates of the impurities is relatively high. The air in the storage container can be quickly deodorized and sanitized. The concentration of ozone at the exit of the air cleaning unit can be precisely established. A very low concentration of ozone can be established in the storage container in order to sanitize surfaces of the materials such as over a longer period of time. This dual approach can minimize negative effects of ozone concentrations in the air handling system or the surface of the sports or other equipment.

Throughout this specification and in the claims the term air cleaning unit is intended to relate to an apparatus for sanitizing decontaminating deodorizing conditioning drying and or otherwise treating cleaning modifying and or improving an atmosphere within a container.

As shown in air cleaning unit has structure such as a housing that forms zone zone and zone . As air or another suitable atmosphere passes through air cleaning unit such as shown by the arrows of flow direction in atmosphere passes first through zone then through zone and then through zone .

In certain embodiments according to this invention ozone is generated within atmosphere passing through zone . The generated ozone is mixed with atmosphere through zone . At least a portion of the generated ozone is removed from the mixed atmosphere within zone . Thus as the atmosphere discharges from zone the atmosphere has been exposed to generated ozone mixed with the generated ozone and then disassociated from at least a portion of the generated ozone.

As shown in FIGS. and for example mixing can occur by forming a nozzle that has a variable diameter along a flow direction of the atmosphere flowing through air cleaning unit . Any suitable venturri nozzle or other converging and or diverging nozzle can be used to mix the fluid flow.

Air cleaning unit can be constructed with structure as described in this specification and or with any other suitable structure that can house or form any zone or chamber used to accomplish ozone generation mixing and or ozone removal.

As shown in structure can be or form an independent apparatus or system that can be positioned within container and or exposed to atmosphere . With an independent arrangement or a stand alone arrangement of air cleaning unit it is possible to operate air cleaning unit independently of any existing air conditioner . For example an independent system can accommodate flow rates passing through air cleaning unit which are different than flow rates passing through air conditioner such as an existing refrigeration unit mounted within a transport trailer or other container.

Any suitable conventional device for removing ozone can be mounted within or exposed to zone . In certain embodiments according to this invention ozone can be removed or disassociated from zone with a thermal decomposer a combustible support a catalytic decomposer a photo disassociating device and or an ultraviolet light source.

In certain embodiments according to this invention the UV light is generated at a wavelength of about 187 nm to absorb oxygen and thus produce ozone such as within zone . In certain embodiments according to this invention the UV light is generated at a wavelength of about 254 nm to absorb the ozone and cause photolysis or photo disassociation. shows a graph of reducing ozone with ultraviolet light at about 254 nm.

As shown in for example an outlet of structure which forms air cleaning unit is in communication with zone and atmosphere or the space of container . As shown in material is mounted positioned or otherwise housed within container so that material is exposed to atmosphere .

Also shown in air mover can be used to circulate atmosphere . Any suitable fan or other air moving device can be used to create flow of atmosphere through air cleaning unit . As shown in air conditioner such as an evaporator or any other suitable air conditioning device is mounted within atmosphere of container .

Container can comprise any suitable structure that defines a chamber or other suitable space for accommodating material . Container can be formed by a transportation trailer a storage trailer a storage bin a bag a shipping container an equipment bin and or an expandable structure.

In certain embodiments according to this invention the method for sanitizing decontaminating deodorizing conditioning drying or otherwise treating atmosphere begins with generating ozone within atmosphere passing through zone . Within zone the generated ozone is mixed with the atmosphere to enhance removal of undesirable contaminates or other elements of atmosphere . At least a portion and possibly the entire amount of generated ozone is removed from the mixed atmosphere as it passes through zone .

It is possible to mix atmosphere with the generated ozone within zone and or zone . It is possible to continue to mix atmosphere with the generated ozone as it passes through zone .

The apparatus of this invention can comprise a control unit for example located at the exit of the evaporator. The control unit can comprise three sections including a UV light 187 nm ozone generation chamber for generating a relatively high ozone concentration a mixing zone for removing ethylene with ozone and a UV light 254 nm ozone dissociation chamber for destroying ozone to a level desired for the atmosphere in the container.

The apparatus and or the method of this invention can comprise a controller or other suitable control system for managing or controlling ozone generation mixing and or ozone removal.

In some embodiments of this invention a controller such as control as shown in can communicate or transmit signals through a wired and or a wireless connection to control any operating parameter and or function of air cleaning unit . In some embodiments of this invention control parameters are based on timing functions of one or more UV sources . It is possible to control the apparatus and or the method to achieve desired results without requiring for example a relatively expensive ethylene sensor and or a feedback loop. Any control based on timing functions of UV source according to this invention can be relatively inexpensive and will require reduced maintenance and reduced replacement parts particularly as compared to a sensor based control system.

In certain embodiments of this invention the controller can comprise a transport and storage mode and or a cleaning mode. In the transport and storage mode air cleaning unit can cycle with an evaporator. When an evaporate air handler operates two sets of UV sources can be energized to remove any residual ethylene from atmosphere . An override mode can start air mover or any other suitable air handler for example to begin moving air through the evaporator and or air cleaning unit for a defined or chosen time period. The controller can then trigger the air handler to start and begin passing fluid through air cleaning unit even if a thermostat or other sensor does not request or call for the evaporator to start.

In certain embodiments of this invention during the cleaning mode container can be closed with or without a lock and or an alarm during a cleaning cycle. During the cleaning cycle UV source or another suitable ozone generator can be energized while fluid passes through air cleaning unit such as for any preset and or calculated time period. After a defined or calculated time period for generating ozone is reached UV source can be stopped or not operated while air is circulated through air cleaning unit for example for a time that is sufficient to expose atmosphere and thus kill or remove molds fungus spores and or any other undesired contaminate. Any necessary time period can be calculated from a program of the controller and or from known data. After the defined and or calculated time period UV source can be started within zone to remove ozone from the fluid flowing through air cleaning unit .

After the cleaning cycle time period expires the controller can signal and or activate to open any lock and or to deactivate any alarm. The controller can also be used to communicate with and learn information from any suitable sensor that detects a desired parameter or when the ozone concentration is at a certain level such as when the ozone concentration falls below a level defined by any government agency and or other guideline recommendation.

The units of this invention can have a low pressure drop and may use a conventional or existing air handler and or refrigeration system. The ducting and unit structure can be fabricated from plastics such as PVC CPVC or from sheet metal with a suitable coating such as a PTFE coating. The volume of the apparatus can be designed as a function of a size of an evaporator outlet such as if ducting needs to interface with the refrigeration unit. In certain embodiments the total volume of the ECU and the ducting connecting it to the evaporator outlet can be approximately 3 5 cubic feet. The UV bulb life can be about 10 000 hours. It is possible that no other part require maintenance in the apparatus according to certain embodiments of this invention.

It is possible to estimate the required ozone generation capacity of the ozone generation chamber. The required ozone generation rate can be a function of an expected ethylene generation rate. The stoichiometric requirement for oxidation of ethylene by ozone is four moles of ozone for each mole of ethylene destroyed assuming that only the oxygen radical participates in the oxidation of the hydrocarbon. 4O CH 2CO 2HO 4O

Thus with an ethylene generation scenario having an estimated production of 1 liter per day of ethylene gas in a 20 shipping container there is a need of 4 liters per day of ozone generation to destroy the ethylene. This volumetric production rate of ozone corresponds to about 0.3 grams per hour of ozone production. Using a design factor of about 10 assuming that only 10 of the UV light emitted by a lamp is absorbed by oxygen with the remainder absorbed by walls of the duct work there can be an upper limit on size power and cost estimates. The performance of commercially available ozone generating UV lamps is shown in the table of . A U shaped lamp 14 long that draws 32 Watts of power can generate the desired level of ozone such as 3.0 grams per hour.

Instead of estimating an absorption of 10 an efficiency of UV radiation utilization is calculated using the Beer Lambert law for attenuation of light traveling through an absorbing medium. Log 

According to the Handbook of Ozone Technology and Applications Rice 1984 for oxygen and UV light at a wavelength of 187 nm a is approximately 0.1 atmcm. The partial pressure of oxygen in air is 0.21. With a duct diameter of about 30 centimeters approximately 1 foot the absorption of the UV light I Io will be 0.73 and an expected absorption of the UV light is 27 . Thus an assumption of 10 is a conservative design approach.

The required volume of the ozone generation chamber can be relatively small for example approximately 1.2 cubic feet given a duct diameter of 1 foot and a duct length of about 1.5 feet to accommodate the UV lamp and associated mounting hardware and a ballast.

The geometry of the mixing chamber can be determined as a function of the actual use or the proposed program. The mixing chamber can have a simple design such as a continuation of the duct from the ozone generation chamber with at least some change in duct diameter in order to enhance mixing. A simple low pressure drop mixing chamber configuration is shown in .

In an ultraviolet UV light system there are two spectral lines that are pertinent to ozone formation. UV light at a wavelength of 187 nm is absorbed by oxygen and causes ozone production. UV light at a wavelength of 254 nm is absorbed by ozone and causes photolysis or photo dissociation of the ozone. An equivalent lamp to the one selected above with a glass tube designed to emit at a 254 nm wavelength will break ozone down to oxygen with an efficiency such as shown in the graph of .

At least some most or all of the ozone can be removed in the later or downstream chamber of the ECU. For a variety of reasons it may be desirable to maintain a low level of ozone in the ambient air of the container for example to have an opportunity to diffuse the ozone into the produce cartons and to oxidize the ethylene in situ. The ozone removal chamber can be sized to achieve the desired exit concentration of ozone. The size and thus residence time of the ozone removal chamber can be estimated by calculating or measuring a UV lamp intensity throughout a duct and setting the desired ozone concentration at the end of the duct. The resultant residence time sets the required duct length for the desired degree of ozone reduction.

The geometry of the ozone removal chamber can set the ozone removal properties of the system. It is possible to also use an operating sequence. For example UV lamps can be set to sequence on so that the ozone removal lamp stays on longer than the ozone generating lamp the chamber size remains small and the air continues to cycle through the ethylene removal unit after the ozone generation lamps are turned off.

According to this invention a test facility to conduct ozone generation ethylene removal and ozone destruction testing can include the following components instrumentation including a Thermo Fisher 49i ozone analyzer a storage control systems electro chemical ethylene analyzer voltage and or current meters to monitor a power draw of lamps or UV source an ozone generator including a UV lamp G24T6VH U ozone generator 180 nm wavelength 25 Watts 2.3 grams hour output an ozone remover including a UV lamp G24T6 U germicidal lamp 254 nm wavelength 25 Watts 8.5 Watts UV output and a stainless steel model container and flow system including a container sized at scale flow rates scaled to achieve up to 1 air change per minute an axial fan positioned in a duct to move air through zones and and high vacuum stainless steel weld fittings to provide leak free operation.

While in the foregoing detailed description this invention has been described in relation to certain preferred embodiments thereof and many details have been set forth for purposes of illustration it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that this invention is susceptible to additional embodiments and that certain of the details described herein can be varied considerably without departing from the basic principles of this invention.

