---

title: Housecall device for patients with implanted devices
abstract: An exemplary device includes a processor, one or more communication interfaces, memory and one or more modules stored in the memory that comprise processor executable instructions to receive data from an implantable device via at least one of the one or more communication interfaces, to interrogate the data for one or more particular types of data, to process one or more particular types of data and to transmit information via at least one of the one or more communication interfaces. Various other exemplary devices, methods, systems, etc., are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08112151&OS=08112151&RS=08112151
owner: Pacesetter, Inc.
number: 08112151
owner_city: Sylmar
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070621
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 871 389 filed Dec. 21 2006 entitled Housecall Device for Patients with Implanted Devices. 

This application is also related to U.S. Ser. No. 11 766 370 filed Jun. 21 2007 entitled Housecall Device for Patients with Implanted Devices which is fully incorporated by reference herein.

Subject matter presented herein generally relates to management of patient condition or condition of an implanted device.

A patient fitted with an implantable device should be as free as possible to behave in a normal manner especially at home. However a patient s desire for freedom should be balanced with a clinician s desire to monitor the patient and or implanted device and to provide the highest level of care. Various technologies described herein aim to provide patients and or clinicians with features that promote patient freedom and patient care.

An exemplary device includes a processor one or more communication interfaces memory and one or more modules stored in the memory that comprise processor executable instructions to receive data from an implantable device via at least one of the one or more communication interfaces to interrogate the data for one or more particular types of data to process one or more particular types of data and to transmit information via at least one of the one or more communication interfaces. Various other exemplary devices methods systems etc. are also disclosed.

In general the various methods devices systems etc. described herein and equivalents thereof are optionally suitable for use in a variety of pacing therapies and other cardiac related therapies.

The following description includes the best mode presently contemplated for practicing the described implementations. This description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but rather is made merely for the purpose of describing the general principles of the implementations. The scope of the described implementations should be ascertained with reference to the issued claims. In the description that follows like numerals or reference designators will be used to reference like parts or elements throughout.

The communication network may include more than one type of network e.g. a heterogeneous network . The communication network may rely on one or more satellites landlines etc. A communication link may exist between the communication network and a device such as a telephone a computer a television a power supply or a power meter etc. For example the housecall device HD a telephone service internet cell or other a television cable service and a power service may rely on the communication network .

In the example of the housecall device includes a receiver component for receipt of data an interrogator component a processing module for processing data and a transmitter component for transmitting information. The scheme includes within a patient environment an implanted patient device and external diagnostic equipment that can transmit data to the receiver component of the housecall device .

The housecall device then transmits the data from the receiver component to the interrogator component . The interrogator component acts to interrogate one or more devices e.g. the device the device or the device . Interrogation occurs via transmission of a signal from the interrogator component to a device. Upon receipt of the signal the device then acts accordingly to transmit data to the interrogator component of the housecall device.

As an alternative or in addition to interrogation data may be transmitted from a device to the interrogator component via an operational schedule operating in the device e.g. the device the device or the device . In yet another alternative the interrogator component may transmit a signal to a device that signals the device to take an action that may include transmitting data to a destination other than the housecall device .

According to the scheme the interrogator component transmits data to a processing module for processing data. The processing module typically includes logic to determine whether to transmit a notification or information. If the processing module decides that such transmission or transmissions are appropriate then a transmitter component transmits the data which may be in the form of an alert where an alert is a notification. In the scheme the transmitter component transmits data to a receiver and transmits an alert to a receiver .

An interrogator component may include logic to discern types of data received from an implantable device and or other device e.g. external diagnostic instrument etc. . Data types may include therapy data patient condition data and device condition data. Thus the interrogator component may be used to parse received data as received or on some other basis e.g. once a day to appropriately process data. The interrogator component may include logic that determines whether processing should occur. For example the interrogator component may use trigger or other information when making a decision to transmit data to the processing module .

The scheme includes within a patient environment an implanted patient device and external diagnostic equipment that can transmit data to a housecall device . In the example of the housecall device transmits the data from the patient environment to an outside interrogation environment demarcated by a dashed line. The interrogation environment includes an interrogator that acts to interrogate one or more housecall devices e.g. the device . Interrogation occurs via transmission of a signal from the interrogator to a housecall device . Upon receipt of the signal the housecall device then acts accordingly to transmit data to the interrogator .

As an alternative or in addition to interrogation data may be transmitted from the housecall device to the interrogator via an operational schedule operating in the housecall device . In yet another alternative the interrogator may transmit a signal to the housecall device that signals the housecall device to take an action that may include transmitting data to a destination other than the interrogator .

In the example of the interrogator is generally a computing device configured to receive information. For example the receiver device RD of may be an interrogator. The interrogator may be control logic e.g. software etc. that operates in conjunction with a computing device that performs functions in addition to interrogation.

The scheme shows the interrogator receiving data from the housecall device as well as optionally receiving data from external diagnostic equipment arrow with dashed boundary . The external diagnostic equipment may be equipment residing in a clinical environment. For example a programmer for an implantable device may receive information from an implanted device during a patient s in clinic visit. The interrogator may then receive information from the programmer pertaining to the in clinic visit such as the information from the implanted device. In this manner the interrogator can receive remote information and in clinic information.

According to the scheme the interrogator transmits data to a processing module for processing data. The processing module may operate on the same computing device as the interrogator . The processing module typically includes logic to determine whether to transmit a notification or information. If the processing module decides that such transmission or transmissions are appropriate then a transmitter transmits the data which may be in the form of an alert where an alert is a notification.

In the scheme the transmitter transmits data to a receiver transmits an alert to receiver and optionally transmits data or alerts to the housecall device . The scheme may include open loops or closed loops. For example a closed loop exists where data from the housecall device causes the transmitter to transmit data or an alert to the housecall device .

As described in an exemplary scheme may include interrogation and processing or analysis functionality. Interrogation and analysis may occur on a relatively frequent basis or substantially continuous basis.

An exemplary scheme typically uses triggers to control flow of information. Triggers may be set based upon defined conditions e.g. fixed or selected by a managing clinician s and may be used to provide an alert to a clinician and to transmit diagnostic information. In such situations transmitted diagnostic information is usually related to or includes information that activated the triggered to gate an alert condition to a clinician s site remote database site etc.

An exemplary scheme relies on triggers to control information flow via gates. For example a trigger may cause a gate to direct information to a managing clinician only when an alert condition has taken place and when the clinician has been successfully notified that data is being transmitted for review. Where receipt of information is urgent transmission of the information may be contingent upon a clinician acknowledging receipt of a notification.

The implanted patient device of may be a pacemaker or an implantable defibrillator. The device includes circuitry for transmitting specified diagnostic information e.g. rhythm based data comorbidity diagnostics utilizing a transmitter e.g. radio frequency microwave etc. which may transmit information at a designated interval or time s of day.

The receiver component includes a receiver circuit to receive information from the device . The receiver component may transmit a signal e.g. a ping to the implanted device to call for transmission of diagnostic information to the receiver component . The receiver component may also be activated manually by a patient to prompt transmission for example in response a patient notifier prompt from the implanted device .

The interrogator component receives information and it may also have the capability of collecting and processing data from external instruments e.g. instrument instrument etc. directly or indirectly. Such instruments may generate information related to patient management e.g. consider an electronic weight scale or blood pressure monitor .

The processing module typically operates in concert with the interrogator component . The processing module can assess alert conditions which may either be preset or defined by a managing clinician e.g. blood pressure exceeding a defined limit lead impedance out of acceptable range . As described herein triggers are used to gate information. Triggers are set such that upon occurrence of an event or condition one or more gates open to allow for flow of information. Gated information may include additional data such as destination urgency receipt request etc. The processing module may add such additional information according to specified trigger parameters.

When a gate has been triggered information e.g. data notification etc. is then transmitted via the transmitter module to a clinic or designated service provider station or alternatively to a web based server for clinician access. The transmitter module may send an alert message to a clinician s with a receiving device e.g. the receiver the receiver which may be a cell phone paging device e mail receiver etc. Information transmitted to such a device may indicate the nature of the alert condition and verify successful transmission.

With respect to the various device configurations the housecall device may be a unit with or without a visual display panel. The device may be battery powered powered by house current powered by a fuel cell powered by a vehicle s power supply solar powered etc.

The receiving device includes a processor a communication interface and memory and a user interface . The memory stores an operating system and one or more other instruction modules . The operating system allows the processor to operate according to instructions provided by an instruction module . In general an instruction module includes software instructions that allow the device to communicate via the communication interface and to display or receive information via the user interface . The communication interface may communicate via wire or wirelessly. The instruction module may include interrogator instructions and processing instructions as described with respect to .

With respect to the various device configurations the receiving device is typically a unit capable of displaying information via a visual display panel. The device may include an integral or detachable visual display panel. The device may be powered by any of a variety of power sources however the device is typically located in a building and powered by a building s power supply.

A housecall assembly includes a base unit that connects to a communication interface such as a telephone line or a cable line. In this example the base unit includes a power cord however other examples may receive power via the communication interface e.g. consider a conventional telephone a USB bus a Firewire bus etc. . A satellite device includes an antenna for communicating information to or from the base unit . In general the satellite device is configured to communicate with an implantable device.

A housecall device operates as a base unit for a satellite device where the base unit includes an antenna and the satellite device includes antenna for communication of information. A housecall device includes an antenna and a user interface for display of information. In this example the device also includes a keypad interface. The device allows for communication with an implantable device and another device tied to a communication network. The device may be handheld for example about the size of a cell phone or palm computing device.

The scheme provides for transmitting patient related data from a patient environment to clinical environment and can facilitate patient management. For example the scheme can reduce frequency of routine clinic visits potentially enhancing clinician productivity by freeing up staff to manage non routine clinic visits. The scheme can also provide a significant benefit to patients who may otherwise need to travel significant distances to a clinical environment which may be difficult or impractical. Given an ability to transmit data from a patient s environment whether on demand by a clinician or patient initiated can allow a clinician or staff to be alerted of clinical problems or device related issues and thus be prompted to take appropriate action.

The trigger and gate scheme of can reduce the risk of overwhelming a clinician with an overabundance of information for example by identifying events or information that is particularly relevant. Further urgency criteria or indicators may be included in triggers or gates so as to ensure that relevant information is reviewed in a timely manner.

The scheme may call for collection of diagnostic data on a frequent basis while transmitting the data with the appropriate alert information only when the collected data has triggered an alert condition which would warrant the immediate attention of a clinician.

The scheme includes a housecall device associated with a patient that has an implanted device . As already described the housecall device can acquire information from the implanted device . The housecall device can then transmit the acquired information directly or indirectly to a receiving device for analysis or the housecall device may perform analysis of information. One or more gates control the flow of information from the housecall device or the receiving device or other device e.g. the computing device to another device a clinician or other person e.g. insurer spouse etc. .

A block diagram outlines a process for transmitting information responsive to a trigger. In a set block a trigger is set. For example a clinician may use a computing device to review a patient s record and to set a trigger based on the review. In another example an insurer may note a change in the required frequency of in clinic visits for a patient and set a trigger based on this change.

After setting a trigger a data collection block acts to collect data from a patient s implanted device. For example the housecall device may acquire data from the implanted device . Next an analysis block analyzes the acquired data. The analysis may be carried out by a housecall device or another device e.g. the device or the device . In the example of a decision block decides whether to trigger a gate based on the analysis. Once triggered a gate e.g. the gate or the gate causes a transmit block to transmit information. As shown in the gate pertains to a clinician having a computing device whereas the gate pertains to a non clinician having a computing device . Information may flow to the device or the device directly or indirectly from the housecall device the receiving device or the computing device .

The trigger destination may include one or more clinician destinations e.g. C X C Y one or more manufacturer destinations e.g. M Y one or more insurance destinations e.g. I Z one or more hospital clinic destinations e.g. H X one or more emergency medical service destinations e.g. ambulance A Z etc. A trigger may gate information to multiple destinations using a specific level for each destination. For example T is for patient activity while the table lists the trigger level as red for destinations C X and C Y in an alternative the trigger level may be red for C X and yellow for C Y.

As the table may include triggers related to many different parties such parties may have access to the table . The permissions parameter indicates which party has access to the particular trigger for example to view or to make changes to the trigger. An insurer may have access to insurance related triggers only and may not be able to view other triggers whereas a patient s managing or primary clinician may be able to view edit add or delete any trigger.

The trigger message parameter may include a set message for display on a user interface. In an alternative the message parameter may cause execution of software for example script that causes display of a message or a series of messages on a user interface. As described further below a device may include a display for displaying a series of diagnostic questions.

Given the trigger table possible functions of a housecall device e.g. the devices etc. and other devices become more clear. In particular information received by a housecall device typically relates to the trigger criteria parameter. The housecall device or another device may analyze the information to determine whether criteria has been met and hence whether to gate information to a destination.

Various other trigger parameters may be used. For example where a return receipt is required due to urgency a return receipt parameter may be set. If a return receipt is not received after transmission of an alert to a destination then control logic may cause the alert to be sent to another destination until someone acknowledges receipt. Such a scheme helps to ensure that action is taken in response to an urgent alert. This particular mechanism provides a measure of assurance to an automated system and can therefore address some liability issues. Various examples of query logic QL are described below see column QL of table where the query logic causes a housecall device or other device to query a patient and receive answers to such a query. Query logic may be in the form of a questionnaire or in the form of logic that presents a query based at least in part on the answer to a prior query. Query logic may present questions in a random order in an order determined at least in part on an answer to a prior question and or according to a schedule e.g. a frequency over a number of days etc. . Various forms of logic are discussed herein some with respect to exemplary housecall devices clinician user interfaces etc. however these forms of logic may apply to methods devices systems and user interfaces other than those of a specific example.

Data Information from a housecall device may be processed at server or at for example a clinician s workstation or a third party s workstation. Thus a workstation may have specialized software for handling such processing. Processing may be distributed to varying extents between patient device housecall server s and workstation s .

In the exemplary workflow schemes notification may be to a patient a clinician and or other e.g. third party or manufacturer . As already discussed triggers gate data information and may also cause more information to be acquired. In the workflow schemes of triggers are represented as flags that can be set and managed.

The workflow schemes of include a patient having an implanted device a housecall device a receiving device and a clinician that can access information transmitted to the receiving device . Symbols include flags a thumbs up OK and checkmarks. A flag indicates notification an OK indicates that information is routine or non urgent and a checkmark indicates that transmission of information occurred without problems.

The workflow scheme of includes a patient device a housecall device and a server . The workflow scheme includes a normal data flow path and an alert flow path . The normal data flow path starts with the patient device sending data to the housecall device . In response the housecall device issues a confirmation to the patient device i.e. a checkmark . The housecall device then processes the data and transmits information to the server . In the normal instance where no problems exist the information is simply routine information as indicated by the thumbs up OK. In response the server issues a confirmation to the housecall device i.e. a checkmark . The clinician then reviews the information residing on the server and issues a confirmation to the server that the information has been reviewed i.e. a checkmark .

The alert flow path differs from the normal flow path in that the housecall device uncovers an anomaly in the information collected from the implanted device . In this instance the housecall device issues an alert to the patient. For example the housecall device may produce an audible or visual signal or transmit a signal to a device carried by the patient. In the example of the patient initiates contact with the clinician to thereby notify the clinician of the alert. Where the housecall device includes a display the display may provide guidance to the patient such as providing a telephone number for the clinician. The scheme may be suitable for instances of low clinician liability where a notification goes through patient and where routine information is pushed through to the clinician.

According to the scheme where data processing is provided at a server a clinician may access the data or processed data via a network such as the Internet. Where data processing is provided at a workstation the workstation requires processing capabilities to determine whether an alert should be issued.

The alert flow path involves processing at the computing device e.g. a server or a workstation where the processing may uncover one or more anomalies in the data. Upon uncovering such an anomaly the device issues an alert to the housecall device . The device may be under the control of the clinician or another service provider. In general a clinician has access to the information transmitted to the device . Where appropriate a clinician may process the information and issue another alert for example as indicated by the alert flow path of . Thus redundancies may exist for the scheme .

For the scheme processing of information collected by a housecall device may be performed by a third party. A clinician may have access to the information via a network e.g. the Internet . In general the clinician has access to routine information provided via the normal flow path .

In the scheme the clinician may have access to the information transmitted to the device and have access to processing capabilities of the device e.g. on the same device or on a different computing device . Overall the scheme can place responsibility on a service provider for notifying a clinician and optionally a patient of an alert. For example another alert flow path may exist between the service provider and the patient directly or indirectly e.g. optionally via the housecall device . The service provider may provide service at a cost or in a manner that reduces demands and costs associated with the clinician. For example the service provider may be located in one or more locations and operational 24 hours a day to thereby ensure that information is processed and alerts issued where appropriate. Further the service provider may act to ensure that at least one party is notified in the case of an urgent condition alert.

Exemplary triggers such as those shown in the trigger table may be managed by one or more service providers. shows an exemplary scheme for setting and managing triggers for a particular housecall device . According to the scheme a server allows various service providers to access one or more triggers. In this example the service providers include a heart failure specialist an emergency physician and a general physician. The service providers may be in contact with each other via telephone email or in person for example to discuss one or more triggers. Various terminals for use by the service providers are shown in communication with the server . Access to the triggers may be protected by permissions or other security measures. A trigger may be assigned a permission that limits interaction to read only adjust only disable only etc.

Adjustments or changes to one or more triggers may be specific to a single patient or a single component e.g. a housecall device in an information chain or they may be applied to more than one patient or more than one component in an information chain and or applied to more than one information chain.

Changes may be made globally or according to certain criteria such as version of a device s software patient condition etc. In some instances a change at one site may be propagated to one or more other sites e.g. clinicians third parties patients manufacturers patient devices housecall devices servers workstations etc. .

In the example of the computing device may be a server that receives information from the housecall device and then processes the information. The server may be accessed via a network using terminals or workstations.

Where processing and trigger management occurs at a device other than the housecall device the capabilities of housecall device may be simplified. For example a basic housecall device configuration may include a timer memory and a communication interface to receive and transmit information.

Where processing and trigger management occurs at a service provider s workstation the service provider may pull information from the server or other data store and then process the information. For example a service provider may receive a telephone call or an email indicating that information is at the server and that the information should be reviewed or processed. In response the service provider may log in to the server using a workstation or terminal to review or process the information and optionally manage one or more triggers.

Where processing of information occurs at the housecall device the processed information and optionally the raw information may be transmitted to the server . In this example triggers may operate on the housecall device the server or the housecall device and the server . One or more service providers may access the server via a network using a workstation or terminal . Such access can allow a service provider to manage triggers on the housecall device .

The server of may be associated with a particular clinic where all management of triggers occurs by a service provider at the clinic. In such a scenario clinicians associated with the clinic interact with the service provider to manage triggers and to review information. The clinicians may interact with the service provider via email telephone in person etc. In this example the service provider may be a clinician such as a patient s primary physician.

The computing device may be a server connected to one or more communication networks. In the example of a series of terminals or workstations are shown in relationship to three clinicians. A heart failure clinician HF has responsibility for patient B an emergency physician EP has responsibility for patients A and C and a general practitioner GP has responsibility for patient D. In other examples a patient may have more than one assigned clinician. Permissions may restrict access to a housecall device to information associated with a housecall device patient residing on a data store to information associated with a housecall device patient residing on a server or a workstation .

The scheme shows how service providers can access and manage information e.g. diagnostic data triggers etc. for an individual patient within a group of patients. Triggers may be managed to operate at the housecall device level at the server level or at some other level e.g. workstation etc. . Processing of information collected from a housecall device may occur at the housecall device level the server level or at the workstation level.

With respect to action or response schemes various devices have been shown in communication with one or more devices or one or more communication networks. A response scheme may involve a clinician communicating with a housecall device a clinician communicating with a patient a housecall device communicating with a transmitter a server communicating with a transmitter etc.

As already mentioned a trigger can gate information or an alert. Action or response may occur after receipt of an alert from a patient or a device review of alert information or after review of routine information. A simple response to an alert may involve scheduling a visit for a patient. For example upon receipt of such an alert by a clinic s computing device the computing device may search a clinician s schedule and make an appointment for the patient. In instances where an alert corresponds to a class of patients or devices the receipt of one alert may cause a clinic s computing device to search for all patients in that class or fitted with that device and then make appropriate appointments for the patients.

An exemplary scheme includes processing data with respect to triggers on a housecall device and issuing one or more notifications or alerts from the housecall device based on the processing. The notifications or alerts may be in the form of flags that can be routed via a network to a server. A clinician may log in regularly to the server and download all flags. Alternatively a clinic may log in regularly to the server and route flags to appropriate clinicians or other service providers.

Upon receipt of a flag a clinician may contact a housecall device directly via email or telephone. A clinician may alternatively or in addition to contact a patient using email voice voice messaging text messaging etc. In either instance the clinician may communicate information germane to the condition that gave rise to the flag.

In a particular example a clinician has a cell phone that supports text messaging and the housecall device includes a built in cell phone receiver with a cell phone number that supports text messaging. In this example the clinician creates a text message and sends the text message to the phone number assigned to the housecall device.

In another example the clinician uses a workstation to log in to a website that corresponds to the patient and the patient s housecall device. For example the website may have a URL such a standard URL or an address that includes at least part of a patient s name or other patient identifier. The website may present a webpage e.g. user interface with log in fields. The housecall device may include a display panel that displays a webpage of the website. The clinician s interaction with the website may cause the housecall device to change the displayed webpage in a manner that alerts the patient. The clinician may cause the webpage to blink display a text message etc. Via the website the clinician may cause the housecall device to issue an audible signal a vibratory signal or another signal to alert the patient. An exemplary housecall device may have call forwarding service or share a cell phone number with a portable cell phone or pager carried by the patient. Communication with an exemplary housecall device may occur by any of a variety of mechanisms e.g. 3G GSM WiFi etc. .

An exemplary housecall device includes a communication interface that may select a transmission mode based on data rate. Once selected the housecall device may transmit information according to the data rate of the selected transmission mode. For example where the transmission mode relies on modem data rates the information may be compressed or filtered to reduce the size of the information. Where a broadband cable line is available the housecall device may transmit detailed information of a much larger size. Selection of transmission mode may depend on availability size of information urgency etc. A trigger table may include a parameter that pertains to transmission mode.

An exemplary trigger includes a trigger parameter that causes an alert to be sent to a cell phone. The alert may include a simple text message that does not significantly delay transmission of the alert and that provides the cell phone holder with an indication of the nature of the alert.

A server may respond to a trigger by transmitting an alert to a cell phone. Also a server may include features for selection of transmission mode where appropriate or desirable.

A housecall device optionally stores information pertaining to a patient s schedule. In particular a housecall device may store a patient s clinical schedule. A workstation or a server may communicate with such a housecall device directly or indirectly to thereby read the patient s schedule and optionally alter the patient s schedule or add new schedule events e.g. clinic visits etc. .

Flow of information to the team may depend on the type of information and responsibilities of each team member. An exemplary scheme for a clinical team may include a member hierarchy to govern information flow as well as availability information for each member.

A particular scheme provides for flow of information for a heart failure specialist HF an emergency physician EP and a general practitioner GP . The EP may use a handheld device to access a server via a network to exchange data with a housecall device. In this example the EP may pull information from the housecall device and then use the information to decide on a therapy. As the EP accesses the information a notification may be sent by the server or the housecall device to the GP. In turn the GP may be updated as to the patient s condition via the server e.g. via an Internet connection etc. . If appropriate the GP may intervene or advise the EP or contact the HF for a more in depth analysis of the patient s condition.

An exemplary method includes setting a trigger transmitting the trigger to a computing device in a patient environment acquiring information in the patient environment using the computing device where the information comprises data from an implantable device analyzing the information with respect to the trigger and deciding whether to transmit information via a network to a clinical environment based on the analyzing. For example the setting may occur in any of a variety of manners as discussed with respect to and as well as as appropriate.

A trigger may be part of a trigger table and generally includes at least one trigger parameter which may have a numeric and or alphanumeric value. As described with respect to trigger parameters may include one or more of the following condition parameters numeric criterion parameters alert level parameters destination parameters permission parameters message parameters and query logic parameters. With respect to numeric criterion parameters these may include one or more numeric values. An analysis of data from an implantable device may include use of one or more numeric criterion parameters. For example a numeric value representative of impedance may be compared to impedance data from an implantable device. Similarly heart rate time etc. may be numeric values. For time an analysis may compare data representing an interval associated with cardiodynamics to the numeric value. For example a pacing device may measure a PR interval which an analysis may compare to a trigger value.

An exemplary method may include presenting a query in a patient environment using a computing device. Further such a method may include receiving an answer to the query optionally where deciding to transmit information depends at least in part on the answer. An analysis may include presenting a query in a patient environment using a computing device.

As already mentioned with respect to acquisition of information may occur according to an event a schedule etc. Various examples include repeating acquisition of information if a decisions step decides not to transmit information e.g. to a clinical environment . After acquisition analysis may occur or analysis may occur after a certain number of acquisitions etc.

While not shown in if the trigger causes transmission of information the method may repeat setting the trigger especially if the transmitted information is germane to any conditions related to the trigger e.g. patient conditions device conditions etc. .

As mentioned with respect to the table of a trigger may include an associated alert level or alert levels e.g. based on an error or other analysis of data from an implantable device an alert level may accompany transmission of information e.g. to a clinician or clinical environment . Thus a trigger may provide an alert level or alert levels as appropriate.

A trigger may provide an address for a transmission. For example where a decision occurs to transmit information via a network to a clinical environment a trigger may provide an address for the clinical environment.

Where a decision occurs to transmit information via a network to a clinical environment a condition indicator may accompany the transmission. A trigger may provide such a condition indicator.

Where a decision occurs to transmit information via a network to a clinical environment a text message or voice message may accompany the transmission. A trigger may provide the text message or voice message. For example the message column in the table may include a text message and or a voice message e.g. a .wav file or other audio file . Further a computing device may include text to speech or speech to text capabilities. Such capabilities are useful for patients that lack text entry ability or conversely speech ability. Such capabilities are useful for clinicians for example depending on task etc. Further a clinician may select a voice an accent a language etc. for delivery of a message or query to a patient. For example a clinician may select to be the speaker and to record her voice in one or more digital audio files according to a standard or a custom query alert command reminder etc. A clinician s user interface may provide for such options. Digital audio files may be stored at any of a variety of locations in the a system e.g. housecall implantable device server telephonic device PDA etc. .

Various exemplary methods include confirmation or security features. For example where a decision occurs to transmit information via a network to a clinical environment in the instance the transmission to the clinical environment fails the deciding decides to transmit information to an alternative clinical environment or location. A trigger may provide an address for an alternative clinical environment in the instance the transmission to primary clinical environment fails.

An exemplary method may include acquiring information from more than one implantable device. An exemplary method may include acquiring information from one or more external devices. An external device may be a diagnostic instrument e.g. blood pressure instruments blood glucose instruments blood gas concentration instruments body mass instruments body activity instruments positive airway pressure instruments kidney dialysis instruments etc. .

An exemplary method may include acquiring information using a local area network associated with a patient environment and or a wireless network associated with a patient environment. As already mentioned a patient environment may be a house an apartment a vehicle etc.

A computing device in a patient environment may use cell phone circuitry for communication via a cellular phone network. Transmission of information to a clinical environment may occur via a cellular phone network. A patient environment may include access to a cable service provider network.

Transmission of information to one or more alternative locations to ensure proper receipt of information may occur automatically or in response to an event or lack thereof . For example an exemplary method includes deciding whether a transmission succeeded. An exemplary method may include transmitting a response from a computing device in a clinical environment to a computing device in a patient environment. Such a response may indicate that a transmission was successful or that other action should occur. Such a transmission to a patient environment may for example initiate a query according to query logic associated with a trigger. Such a transmission may be an alert to alert a patient where a method may include issuing the alert by a computing device in the patient environment. The computing device in the patient environment may request a response after issuing the alert to acknowledge the alert.

As already mentioned permissions may be used to restrict access to or ability to alter information. For example an exemplary method may include restricting setting of a trigger or altering a trigger based on one or more permissions. Such permissions may correspond to a clinical environment or clinicians in a clinical environment.

An exemplary method includes acquiring information in a patient environment using a computing device wherein the information includes data from an implantable device presenting a query using the computing device receiving an answer to the query via the computing device and deciding whether to transmit information via a network to a clinical environment based at least in part on the answer. Such a method may present one or more additional queries for example based on one or more answers. Such a method may include analyzing the acquired information and presenting the query based at least in part on the analyzing. As already discussed a trigger may provide a query or query logic. An analysis of information may occur with respect to a trigger and a decision to present a query may occur based on such an analysis.

As discussed herein various exemplary methods in part or in whole may be implemented using one or more computer readable media that include processor executable instructions for performing various actions.

The buttons of the base unit allow a user to browse a menu or otherwise interact with the device . The buttons allow a user to interact with the user interface display which may display time interrogation status test results appointment information etc. Referring to the device of the user interface module may provide for such display and the user interface module may be programmable by a user or by a clinician.

The device may include an AC line cord and RJ11 phone cable PCMCIA card functionality for integrating various other connectivity technologies such as Bluetooth integration with external monitoring devices WiFi connectivity to existing DSL Cable broadband connection GSM 3G cellular modem etc. The device may include battery back up and continual connection support for automatic and regular uploading to a network that provides for clinician review without patient involvement.

The device may include a speaker for audible signals or voice communication with a user. Various types of information may be displayed via the display . For example a health related message appears in the user interface display a transmission related message appears in the user interface display and an appointment related message appears in the user interface display . Buttons on the base unit allow a user to respond to questions posed in the display or to navigate a menu for other actions. Large sized buttons and display can facilitate use for patients that may have motion or sight impairment.

The device includes query logic for use in presenting information to a patient or other care provider. For example based on a particular condition or event the query logic may call for a certain query deliverable via a code a text message a voice message etc. In turn an answer may be provided to the query e.g. voice text etc. . Once provided with an answer the query logic may present another query and so on until sufficient information is acquired. The device may use the query logic in making a decision for example as to transmission of information or an alert and or as to location of such a transmission. The exemplary query logic may use one or more triggers and a trigger may call for use of a query or query logic. For example in the table the column QL may indicate query logic for a trigger.

The exemplary housecall device includes a base unit with integrated telephone circuitry for operating a conventional wired or wireless handset that also serves as a receiver unit. The base unit includes a user interface with a display and various buttons. The display may present information germane to communications health device condition etc. In this example the user interface includes a one touch 911 emergency button and a one touch clinic call button. Buttons to pause or cancel a communication or transmission are also included.

In an alternative configuration the device includes a conventional wired or wireless handset and a receiver unit stored in a compartment of the base unit .

The base unit optionally includes a user interface display which may be a touch screen display. For example a lid may include a display on an inside or outside surface. Such a lid display configuration may be in addition to a receiver unit display or as an alternative to a receiver unit display.

The lid may operate according to touch for example a push down on the lid may cause the lid to pop up or lock down. The lid may include a light such as a night light to facilitate locating the device at night. The device may also include a speaker for audible communication and signals.

As shown in the receiver unit nests in a socket in the base unit . The base unit may provide for charging a battery of the receiver unit. Further communication of information may occur from the receiver unit to the base unit or network connected thereto only when the receiver unit is docked or stored in the base unit . The receiver unit as various other receiver units includes circuitry for communication with an implantable device. This circuitry may be suitable for communicating information to the base unit or other circuitry may be used for such communication or transfer of information.

The base unit includes a power cable and may include other cables for communication etc. For example the base unit may include a connector such as a RJ11 telephone jack.

As already mentioned the housecall device may include a topside touchscreen where the screen becomes active when displaying reminders alerts or interaction status. The housecall device may include web browser software suitable for connecting to a website and displaying a webpage. For example a touch screen interface may allow a user to access a clinic a manufacturer or a housecall device webpage. Such webpages may be designed specifically for display on the housecall device and hence have large fields and buttons for ease of use.

The various devices may include web browser software and for the base units and they may display webpages provided by one or more websites e.g. device manufacturer clinic insurer etc. . The devices may allow for interaction with such websites via the webpages or they may act in a passive manner e.g. simply as a display for the webpages .

The devices may include one or more batteries that are recharged via cooperation with a docking station or a charger. The devices may also store a power cord for use in operation or charging a battery. The devices may be portable and allow for wireless communication with a network to for example transmit information received by any of the receiver units from an implantable device. The devices may include a port for communication such as a telephone port a cable port a USB port a Firewire port etc. Portability of the any of the housecall devices allows a user to bring the device to a clinic or other site e.g. vacation home hotel boat vehicle etc. . For example in a hotel a user may connect the one of the base units to the Internet using a hotel s Internet network. Hence the devices may optionally allow a patient to experience a more normal and unencumbered lifestyle.

The devices may include one or more speakers. The base unit may include a touch screen user interface or a base unit may include buttons and a display where the buttons at least partially surround the display similar to an ATM configuration. For example such a display may include specific zones e.g. A B C and D which may represent possible answers to a query.

An exemplary housecall device optionally includes one or more features of an implantable device programmer such as the Model 3510 programmer or the MERLIN programmer marketed by St. Jude Medical Sylmar Calif. . An exemplary housecall device may include circuitry and control logic to send emails to receive emails to send a fax to receive a fax to send a text message to receive a text message to receive an audio file e.g. a digital audio file such as a wav. file to send an audio file etc.

An exemplary housecall device may be programmed to present questions randomly such that a patient does not get accustomed to a particular sequence of questions or a time of questioning. A housecall device may issue a signal until a question is answered for example as a reminder that a query is pending. Questions may be asked in a series over days weeks etc. For example if a clinician sets the query logic to ask a series of questions within a month the logic may present these questions in a specified order an order determined at least in part by an answer to a question and or in a random order. As already explained a clinician may program query logic see also user interface of .

When attached to the strap the receiver unit is position over the left pectoral muscle of a patient. Most implantable cardiac therapy devices are implanted in a pectoral pocket. Hence the strap allows the receiver unit to be positioned in close proximity to an implanted device to facilitate communication. Such communication may occur on an as needed or desired basis as long as the patient is wearing the receiver unit or in close enough proximity to the receiver unit to allow for reliable communication. For example a patient wearing a shirt with a pocket over the left pectoral muscle may place the receiver unit in the shirt pocket to thereby allow for communication with a device implanted in a pectoral pocket. Communication using the receiver unit may occur in a hands free mode where user interaction is unnecessary.

The receiver unit includes one or more lights and may include a speaker to emit an audible signal. The receiver unit may include a vibratory mechanism similar to those used in cell phones to allow a wearer to receive information where visual or audible signals are not suitable e.g. a theatre a meeting etc. . The one or more lights may help in positioning the strap or in notifying the wearer of transmissions battery level when to take medication or other action etc.

The base unit may include various features as described with respect to other base units or housecall devices e.g. a user interface display buttons a speaker a charger for a receiver unit one or more cables one or more communication interfaces etc. .

The receiver unit may provide for communication with an implantable device and for communication with a network. Alternatively the base unit may provide for communication with a network. Communication with a network may occur using a wired communication interface or a wireless communication interface.

The base unit may additionally act as a hub to receive information from one or more sources other than the receiver unit e.g. a weight scale a blood pressure monitor a pedometer etc. . Alternatively the receiver unit may additional act to receive information from one or more sources other than an implantable device e.g. a weight scale a blood pressure monitor a pedometer etc. .

The base unit may operate as a wireless base unit for connecting a variety of devices and for transmitting information received from such devices to a computer or a computer network. The base unit may operate in conjunction with a conventional wireless base unit such as a base unit commonly used for a home network e.g. WiFi Bluetooth etc. .

The base unit may include circuitry for locating the receiver unit . For example a user may push a button on the base unit that causes the receiver unit to issue an audible signal a visible signal etc.

The receiver unit may include various user interfaces such as a display lights buttons a vibratory mechanism a speaker etc. The housecall device optionally includes a holster that allows a user to carry the receiver unit . Alternatively the receiver unit includes a clip that allows a user to clip the unit to a belt a strap etc.

The device may be suitable for use in a secondary or smaller clinic or in a public place such as on a plane in an airport etc. The device may be capable of communicating with a variety of implantable devices from a variety of manufacturers. In general the device would be able to acquire basic information as to the type of implantable device and set operational mode s . In emergency situations such basic information may be provided to those first on a scene or to better prepare those that may have access to equipment related to the particular implantable device.

The device may include a wireless or other RF like module or a wired module e.g. provided by the card or the module . Thus the base may provide for various options that can be tailored based on costs patient needs etc.

The devices and may be assigned telephone numbers or network addresses e.g. one or more URLs . Such features can allow a service provider to contact a patient or to communicate with the device or on an as needed or desired basis. For example a service provider may desire to upgrade software on the device . Such an upgrade may occur without bothering the user where a cell phone number exists for the device specifically for device operations. In this example the device may have another phone number for voice or user notification operations. Where a device has a single address or silent phone number an instruction or signal may be communicated to the device to thereby cause the device to notify a user e.g. audible signal and visual display of a clinician s phone number .

A clinician or other service provider may use a device such as the device or the device when visiting a patient in a clinic at home or in a business office. For example an insurer may use such a device to interrogate an implanted device for treatment parameters a treatment schedule or other information.

Various exemplary devices aim to be acceptable for a patient and a patient s home environment. In particular a patient may be more willing to use a device that looks like an ordinary alarm clock or clock radio as opposed to a device that looks like something from an acute care clinic. Thus various devices can operate as clocks telephones or other innocuous objects. Further when a device includes an ordinary utilitarian function then a user is more likely to interact with the device or place the device in plain view.

Various devices may be based on a personal computer e.g. laptop or desktop as many homes include personal computers. A personal computer may operate as a base and a unit may include circuitry for communication with an implantable device. In such an arrangement the computer may perform most or all of the processing. In the former the unit may include a processor and memory while in the latter the unit may include basic communication circuitry.

An exemplary device may operate according to an existing network protocol. For example smart home systems on a home network may operate according to a protocol and an exemplary device may use this protocol for communication and then use particular software for other procedures e.g. interrogation processing etc. . An existing communication system for home appliances or other equipment e.g. health exercise etc. may provide application programming interfaces APIs or other features that allow for interoperability plug n play etc. Thus an existing architecture may provide for at least a communication base for an exemplary device. Further such an architecture may provide computer user interfaces that may reduce programming requirements e.g. consider use of standard forms provided by general database applications .

An exemplary device includes a processor one or more communication interfaces memory and one or more modules stored in the memory that include processor executable instructions to receive data from an implantable device via at least one of the one or more communication interfaces to interrogate the data for one or more particular types of data to process one or more particular types of data and to transmit information via at least one of the one or more communication interfaces. For example the device of and the devices of include one or more of these features.

With respect to types of data data received from an implantable device may include at least one type of data such as therapy data patient condition data and device condition data. For example data received from an implantable device may include therapy data for a cardiac pacing therapy and may further include data for one or more cardiac pacing parameters e.g. parameter values parameter values with respect to time etc. .

The aforementioned exemplary device may transmit information in the form of a query. For example one or more modules may include processor executable instructions to present the query via one of the one or more communication interfaces. Further one or more modules may include processor executable instructions to receive an answer to the query via one of the one or more communication interfaces. Yet further one or more modules may include processor executable instructions to transmit information based at least in part on the answer via one of the one or more communication interfaces.

As already mentioned see e.g. an exemplary device may include one or more modules stored in memory that include processor executable instructions to receive information from a diagnostic instrument via at least one of the one or more communication interfaces. Such diagnostic equipment may include a blood pressure instrument a blood glucose instrument a blood gas concentration instrument body mass instrument e.g. a scale a body activity instrument a positive airway pressure instrument e.g. for treatment of apnea a kidney dialysis instrument etc. An exemplary device may include one or more modules with processor executable instructions to interrogate the information from a diagnostic instrument for one or more particular types of information and to process such information. Such a device may include processor executable instructions to process information from a diagnostic instrument and information from an implantable device.

As already mentioned a decision to transmit information may occur see e.g. . An exemplary device may make a decision to transmit information via at least one communication interface where the decision depends at least in part on processing of data received from an implantable device and or depends at least in part on interrogation of data received from an implantable device. A decision may rely on a trigger hence a device may include one or more triggers for use in deciding whether to transmit information via at least one communication interface.

An exemplary device may receive information from a clinician via any of a variety of communication paths. For example a device may include one or more modules with processor executable instructions to receive information from a clinician via at least one communication interface. Such clinician provided information may be used in deciding whether to transmit information via at least one communication interface. Such clinician provided information may be used to present a query via at least one communication interface.

With respect to communication interfaces a device may include a speaker a microphone one or more keys a vibrating mechanism e.g. when in contact with a patient s body or other care provider s body a wireless interface a network interface telephone interface etc.

As already described an exemplary device may include a handheld unit which includes a communication interface and a base. The communication interface of the handheld unit may be a wireless communication interface for wireless communication with the base. A base may include a docking mechanism for the handheld unit. The handheld unit may include one or more lights to convey information to a user. Such information may indicate quality of communication information end of communication information etc.

An exemplary device may receive data from an implantable device via at least one communication interface responsive to a user positioning the handheld unit proximate to the implantable device. For example when a user positions the device e.g. a handheld unit or wearable device proximate to an implantable device communication may be established or initiated by any of a variety of techniques e.g. the external device may transmits a signal that requires a certain proximity to the implantable device for receipt .

An exemplary device may include one or more mechanisms e.g. user inputs or communication channels that initiate receipt of data from an implantable device via at least one communication interface. Such a mechanism may rely on a voice command a button etc.

Various exemplary devices include a mount for example to mount the device to a communication outlet see e.g. the component of . Such an outlet may be a phone outlet a network outlet etc.

An exemplary device may be a personal computer. In such an example the personal computer would include a handheld unit for positioning proximate to an implantable device. Alternatively a wireless home network may provide a signal range that covers a portion of the home the entire home the yard etc. Such a wireless home network may also provide for communication with one or more other instruments e.g. diagnostic instruments home appliances etc. . As part of a therapy a clinician may prescribe a certain home temperature or a temperature that varies with respect to some patient condition. In this example the device may receive information regarding the patient condition and then instruct the home heating cooling system to adjust the environment e.g. temperature humidity etc. . As already mentioned a device may communicate with a positive airway pressure instrument for use in treating apnea e.g. sleep apnea . A device may use a communication interface for a home network or other communication interface for communicating with such an apnea treatment instrument.

As shown in various figures a device may include a clock to display time to a user. Such a clock may also be used in timing one or more events e.g. alerts data acquisition data transmission etc. . A device may include an alarm to alarm a user. In another example an exemplary device includes telephone circuitry such as cell phone circuitry. Such a device may communicate via telephone networks for data and or voice transmissions. An exemplary device may include an Internet browser module for use in browsing the Internet. Such a module is typically software based. A device with telephone circuitry may include browser software for browsing a network such as the Internet.

An exemplary device may include harness to harness the device to a user see e.g. . Such a harness may be a shoulder harness a neck strap etc. A harness may help position at least one communication interface proximate to an implantable device of a user. A device may include a display LCD LED etc. to display status of an implantable device.

As described herein various arrangements of tasks are possible including arrangements other than those of . An exemplary system includes a first computing device with a processor one or more communication interfaces memory and one or more modules stored in the memory that include processor executable instructions to receive data from an implantable device via at least one of the one or more communication interfaces and a second computing device that with a processor one or more communication interfaces memory and one or more modules stored in the memory that include processor executable instructions to receive data from the first computing device to interrogate the data for one or more particular types of data to process one or more particular types of data and to transmit information via at least one of the one or more communication interfaces.

In such a system the second computing device may include a wireless communication interface and or be a handheld wireless computing device. The first computing device typically includes processor executable instructions to transmit information via at least one communication interface. Such information may be a query that can be presented via a communication interface. Further the first device may include one or more modules with processor executable instructions to receive an answer to the query via a communication interface e.g. keypad microphone etc. . The first device may include one or more modules with processor executable instructions to transmit information based at least in part on the answer via a communication interface.

In another arrangement a system includes a first computing device with a processor one or more communication interfaces memory and one or more modules stored in the memory where the one or more modules include processor executable instructions to receive data from an implantable device via at least one of the one or more communication interfaces and to interrogate the data for one or more particular types of data and a second computing device with a processor one or more communication interfaces memory and one or more modules stored in the memory where the one or more modules include processor executable instructions to receive data from the first computing device to process one or more particular types of data and to transmit information via at least one of the one or more communication interfaces.

As with the other arrangement the second computing device may include a wireless communication interface and or be a handheld wireless computing device. The first computing device typically includes processor executable instructions to transmit information via at least one communication interface. Such information may be a query that can be presented via a communication interface. Further the first device may include one or more modules with processor executable instructions to receive an answer to the query via a communication interface e.g. keypad microphone etc. . The first device may include one or more modules with processor executable instructions to transmit information based at least in part on the answer via a communication interface.

To manage information for one or more patients fitted with an implantable device a service provider may use a computing device that operates management software. Exemplary management software includes a rich set of user interfaces to facilitate information management.

A user interface may include text graphics buttons fields etc. A user interface may be navigable via an input device such as a mouse trackball pen touchscreen etc. A user interface may respond to voice commands or signals sent from a handheld or other device. For example a clinician may scroll down a list of patients presented on the screen of a PDA select a patient from the list which in turn transmits a signal to a computing device to display information for that patient on a user interface display.

A synchronization feature may exist to synchronize information between a PDA a cell phone or other device and a workstation setup for managing information. For example at the end of a day a clinician may synchronize information stored on a handheld device with information stored in a clinic database.

Various exemplary user interfaces include interaction structure for viewing transmissions accessing an archive of past records and managing patient clinic guest accounts etc. With respect to transmission transmissions may originate at a housecall device for example after the housecall device communicates with an implanted device or another device in a patient s environment.

A user interface system may support layout and functions associated with a list of transmissions e.g. inbox preview physical sorting transactional inbox etc. . A user interface system may display information and status records in a list of transmissions.

A user interface may allow for batch printing and exporting records or information from a list of transmission. A user interface system may present information or select a user interface based on a control or an account or log in privilege.

A user interface may allow for notes or annotations importation of records from external media and sending records for consultations.

The user interface includes several buttons to allow for printing or exporting. For example a print button can cause printing of a summary list of transmissions while a print selected button can cause printing of various selected records. An export button allows for exporting selected records. The user interface also allows for printing of individual reports see e.g. print button for each patient in the list and for selecting a patient using a selection box e.g. a box for each patient in the list located under a SEL column heading . A review button allows a provider to mark reports for review by for example a critical decision maker.

Behaviors for action buttons may be configured for example the Print Sel button may print the full report or just the summary of the selected transmissions.

The exemplary user interface includes columns for displaying patient name status of a patient device identification time of a transmission or last update and a summary of patient condition or device condition. In the summary column conditions such as ventricular tachycardia ventricular fibrillation impedance are listed. Such conditions can correspond to one or more trigger parameters. For example the trigger table includes parameters for ventricular fibrillation tachycardia and impedance. Thus an exemplary user interface may display summary information as indicated by a trigger parameter.

An exemplary system includes a trigger table with a condition field. In this example a trigger causes information to be gated. The gated information includes the condition field which when received by a server or other device links the condition field with an exemplary user interface such as the user interface of . Thus a user interface may be configured to receive information pertaining to a trigger parameter and to display such information as appropriate or as desired.

Once a transmission has been selected for review a user interface system may automatically cause the display of the user interface where a full summary report is presented optionally in a scrollable window. The user interface includes a battery level graphic an alert information field information boxes that pertain to device settings for different levels of ventricular tachycardias and for ventricular fibrillation. A field for episodes may summarize information as to types of episodes a patient has experienced.

An exemplary user interface may provide a button that allows a user to mark a record as viewed or reviewed or marked for review . An exemplary user interface may automatically update a record as viewed after a user has cause the user interface system to display details for that record. The indicator reviewed may be associated with a user account such that only review by a particular user e.g. primary physician can cause the indicator to be set to reviewed .

An exemplary user interface may be linked to a user s account for example based on a user s role. Thus a critical decision maker such as a clinic s emergency physician may have a user account that causes a user interface system to display a user interface tailored to the emergency physician s role. Such a user interface may display by default transmissions with alerts. A list may also exist to indicate transmission designated for additional review by the emergency physician or a person managed by the emergency physician e.g. an emergency nurse . A button may allow the emergency physician to access other information if needed.

Various lists can be sorted alphabetically by patient device type model serial number implant date etc. When a user desires to exit an archive user interface the user may select a different tab or log out via a log out button.

In the example of functions include importing in clinic reports from a programmer via media enrolling new patients activating patients who where enrolled at time of implant and accessing advanced configurations. In this example access to advanced configurations requires a password. Other fields may be protected as well especially those for managing user accounts enrolling clinics and clinicians and granting special privileges.

A user interface may exist for a patient whereby a patient can access the information via a network such as the Internet. This user interface may include fields for display of basic summary information about the patient s last remote transmission and device. Such a user interface system may provide a patient access to previous transmissions and summaries of in clinic reports.

Information displayed by a user interface for a patient may include information such as Your last transmission sent at 09 00 am on 26 Aug. 20XX was received successfully The battery of your St. Jude Medical Epic II defibrillator is 78 full Depending on how many episodes you have in the future your device may last up to 3 more years until the battery needs to be replaced Doing your transmissions when scheduled helps your clinician manage your device better Since your last transmission or in clinic visit you have not had any episodes and If you have questions about your heart condition call your physician and If you have other questions about your device visit the St. Jude Medical website at www.sjm.com . Where a patient has a housecall device with a user interface display then such a display may display a patient user interface with the foregoing information or other information.

The user interface includes a table with various columns including status patient name device identification time of transmission alert summary and review. As already mentioned a summary field may include a condition associated with a trigger parameter. The review field may include information such as reviewed marked for review etc. related to review status. The interface also includes a text and graphics box for display of information for a selected patient.

To access an archive of past records a user may select the past reports button and to access advanced configurations a user may select the setup button .

An exemplary user interface may include a view all button when a patient s individual transmission report is displayed that causes a computing device to display a list of all the remote transmissions and in clinic reports. The list may be organized chronologically and a user may sort the list by the column headings. The list may also display any annotations that have been added to a transmission record by a clinician. A return to current button can provide quick access back to the most recent remote transmission.

An exemplary user interface system may automatically change a record s status after the record is accessed or may note that the record has been accessed by a particular user. Such access information may be presented as an access history presentable in a user interface. A table may include a status field that displays a check mark or other graphic when a record has been reviewed by an appropriate service provider.

An exemplary user interface provides fields germane to tasks to be performed by a critical decision maker. For example upon log in a system may note the role assigned to the account and select a user interface linked to that role. A critical decision maker may thus see a default user interface that displays urgent transmissions or those marked for additional review. As with other user interfaces once information has been viewed an automatic update may occur such as a change in the status column for a patient transmission.

Additionally via the user interface a user can access other user interfaces that provide functions like adding an annotation to be linked with the record viewing an archive of the patient s past transmissions and reviewing previous next records. A print button allows a user to print the specific content which is displayed or the user can print or export the entire report via an export record button.

The user interface includes a Inbox transmission counter e.g. 22 transmissions and counters for reviewed transmissions and completed transmissions. Various buttons allow actions such as Print Selection Export Selection and Print List . A selection box select all items allows a user to select all items in the Inbox. A clinician may select all items and then print the list and review off line. Once the clinician has finished reviewing one or more of the transmissions the clinician may log in and select a completed or other appropriate action from the drop down menu. Once a user selects completed the user interface may cause a computing device to move the record to an archive or to change an indicator associated with the transmission record to indicate that it is now an archive item.

The user interface may cause a full report user interface to be displayed when a user clicks on the name of a patient. Thus the name field of the table may be active and link to another user interface. The summary field may be linked to a description table that provides for a description of the summary information. Alternatively a bubble may appear once a cursor is placed on the summary field in the table where the bubble displays information about the summary for the transmission.

An enroll button allows a user to enroll a patient into a management system. An activate button allows a user to activate a patient with a new implant and housecall device. Drop down menus list clinics and once a clinic is selected another drop down menu lists new patients associated with the selected clinic. Once the patient is identified a user may select the activate button to thereby activate an account for that patient e.g. a directory an identification etc. . Upon activation a signal may be transmitted to a patient s housecall device that notifies the patient of the activation.

The user interface includes a clinicians button that once selected causes a user interface system to display an exemplary user interface for clinician tasks. shows an exemplary user interface that includes various buttons such as select patient triggers medications and therapy . Also shown are various columns such as those of table of . The column QL for query logic may be set as shown in .

In the example of the triggers button is highlighted and a trigger table is presented for a selected patient Jane Doe . A user may given appropriate permission alter one or more trigger parameters in the table add a trigger or delete a trigger.

A logic button allows a user to view logic and timing of triggers based on the trigger table past history or a simulation. shows an exemplary user interface with a logic graphic that lists various triggers timing and trigger to trigger interaction. Such logic may allow a user to more appropriately set triggers to avoid avalanches or cascades of information that could result in multiple redundant transmissions.

The use of query logic can increase accuracy of diagnostic information as well as provide a direct indication of a patient s coherency or condition. With respect to coherency a time interval may be measured from the time a query is presented to a user until the time an answer is entered e.g. by pushing a button speaking into a microphone etc. . Such response time information may be used to assess quality of answers which may depend on patient condition.

As described herein various exemplary user interfaces can facilitate administration of patient information and therapy management. An exemplary computer system having a graphical user interface including a display and a user input device may be used to implement a method for administrating patient records where the method includes displaying an inbox tab or button and one or more other tabs or buttons receiving an entry selection signal indicative of the user input device selecting the inbox tab or button and in response to the selection signal displaying patient records wherein the displaying comprises displaying a patient status field for each patient record displaying a device field for each patient record and displaying a review button for each patient record.

Such an exemplary method may further include receiving an entry selection signal indicative of the user input device selecting the review button for a patient record and in response to the selection signal displaying a battery level field for an implantable device associated with the patient record. As shown in various figures in response to a selection signal a method may include displaying one or more episodes fields for arrhythmic episodes experienced by the patient corresponding to the patient record as indicated by data received from an implantable device associated with the patient the device identified in the device field.

An exemplary method may include displaying text in a text field that indicates a number of transmissions received by an inbox of a user since a given time and that indicates a number of transmissions viewed by the user.

An exemplary method may rely on a computer system having a graphical user interface including a display and a user input device to perform the steps of displaying an archive tab or button and one or more other tabs or buttons receiving an entry selection signal indicative of the user input device selecting the archive tab or button and in response to the selection signal displaying patient records wherein the displaying comprises displaying a patient name field for each patient record displaying a device field for each patient record and displaying a records field for each patient record wherein the records field comprises a numeric field for a number of archived records associated with remote communication and a numeric field for a number of archived records associated with in clinic communication.

An exemplary method may rely on a computer system having a graphical user interface including a display and a user input device to perform the steps of displaying an administration tab or button and one or more other tabs or buttons receiving an entry selection signal indicative of the user input device selecting the administration tab or button and in response to the selection signal displaying an import button for importing patient records displaying an enroll button to enroll a patient for a remote transmission program displaying a clinic menu for listing participating clinics displaying a patient menu for listing eligible patients associated with a participating clinic. Such a method may include receiving an entry selection signal indicative of the user input device selecting a clinic from the clinic menu and in response to the selection signal displaying in the patient menu a list of eligible patients associated with the selected clinic.

An exemplary method may rely on a computer system having a graphical user interface including a display and a user input device to perform the steps of displaying a transmissions button and one or more other buttons receiving an entry selection signal indicative of the user input device selecting the transmissions button and in response to the selection signal displaying patient records wherein the displaying comprises displaying a patient name field for each patient record displaying a device field for each patient record and displaying a menu for each patient record wherein the menu comprises at least one menu entry selected from a group consisting of review completed print and export.

An exemplary method may include displaying a clinicians button and one or more other buttons receiving an entry selection signal indicative of the user input device selecting the clinicians button and in response to the selection signal displaying a select patient button a triggers button a medications button and a therapy button. Such a method may include receiving an entry selection signal indicative of the user input device selecting the triggers button and in response to the selection signal displaying a trigger table. Selection of a query logic trigger parameter may cause display of a decision tree for query logic. Further such a method may display text fields that present queries for use in constructing query logic.

Although exemplary methods devices systems etc. have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claimed methods devices systems etc.

