---

title: Highly efficient gas permeable devices and methods for culturing cells
abstract: This invention relates to methods and devices that improve cell culture efficiency. They include the use of gas permeable culture compartments that reduce the use of space while maintaining uniform culture conditions, and are more suitable for automated liquid handling. They include the integration of gas permeable materials into the traditional multiple shelf format to resolve the problem of non-uniform culture conditions. They include culture devices that use surfaces comprised of gas permeable, plasma charged silicone and can integrate traditional attachment surfaces, such as those comprised of traditional tissue culture treated polystyrene. They include culture devices that integrate gas permeable, liquid permeable membranes. A variety of benefits accrue, including more optimal culture conditions during scale up and more efficient use of inventory space, incubator space, and disposal space. Furthermore, labor and contamination risk are reduced.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08809044&OS=08809044&RS=08809044
owner: Wilson Wolf Manufacturing Corporation
number: 08809044
owner_city: New Brighton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071207
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 873 347 filed Dec. 7 2006 which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

Each of the applications and patents cited in this text as well as each document or reference cited in each of the applications and patents including during the prosecution of each issued patent application cited documents and each of the PCT and foreign applications or patents corresponding to and or claiming priority from any of these applications and patents and each of the documents cited or referenced in each of the application cited documents and all of the patents and co pending applications naming John Wilson as an inventor are hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference. More generally documents or references are cited in this text and each of these documents or references herein cited references as well as each document or reference cited in each of the herein cited references including any manufacturer s specifications instructions etc. is hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made in part with U.S. Government support under National Institutes of Health Small Business Innovative Research Grant DK0659865 Islet culture shipping and infusion device . The U.S. Government may have certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates to methods and devices that improve cell culture efficiency. They include the use of gas permeable culture compartments that reduce the use of space while maintaining uniform culture conditions and are more suitable for automated liquid handling. They include the integration of gas permeable materials into the traditional multiple shelf format to resolve the problem of non uniform culture conditions. They include culture devices that use surfaces comprised of gas permeable plasma charged silicone and can integrate traditional attachment surfaces such as those comprised of traditional tissue culture treated polystyrene. They include culture devices that integrate gas permeable liquid permeable membranes.

The culture of cells is a central element of biotechnology. Tissue culture flasks are devices commonly used for cell culture because they allow adherent and non adherent cell types to be cultured in them are disposable and can function in a static mode without need for equipment to perfuse medium. Traditional flasks have one culture compartment. Their design requires a gas liquid interface to be present within the device for gas exchange of the culture. Culture medium must reside at a very low height so that oxygen delivery to the cells is not compromised. The height of medium that is recommended for tissue culture flasks is between 2 mm and 3 mm. However the body of the flask must be large enough to hold gas and allow access to the medium typically by use of a pipette. Thus flasks have a large device volume relative to the amount of medium they contain. For example the body of a typical T 175 flask has a footprint approximately 23 cm long by 11 cm wide is about 3.7 cm tall and therefore occupies about 936 cmof space. However it typically operates with about 50 ml of medium. Thus the medium present in the flask body 50 ml relative to the space occupied by the flask body 936 cm demonstrates that only about 5 of the flask s volume is occupied by medium. Furthermore dividing the volume of space occupied by the body of the flask 936 cm by the surface area for cells to reside upon 175 cm shows that the volume of space occupied by the flask is over 5 times the surface area it provides for cells to reside upon. Flasks are manufactured with various amounts of surface area for cells to reside upon typically ranging from 25 cm to 225 cmin area and therefore only have a small culture capacity. As more and more flasks are used during culture scale up the overall amount of space they occupy relative to the small medium volume and limited culture surface area they provide creates an inherently inefficient use of space that burdens the culture process with excess cost related to shipping sterilization storage incubator space and disposal. This problem is compounded by the substantially increased labor and contamination risk.

Multi shelved flasks such as the NUNC Cell Factory U.S. Pat. No. 5 310 676 and CORNING CELLSTACK U.S. Pat. No. 6 569 675 attempt to address inefficient flask scale up by stacking shelves in the vertical direction to create multiple culture compartments within one flask. This creates more surface area within one device and therefore allows more cells to reside in the multi shelved flask than the traditional flask. In this manner one multi shelved flask can replace numerous traditional flasks. The multi shelved flask can be configured so that medium can be accessed through a common collection point precluding the need for pipette access to each culture compartment. That allows the distance between each shelf of the multi shelved flask to be reduced relative to the height of the traditional flask. For example the space between shelves of the NUNC Cell Factory is about 1.4 cm as opposed to the 3.7 cm distance between the bottom and top of a typical T 175 flask creating some improvement in the use of storage shipping sterilization culture and disposal space. A vent in the multi shelved flask allows gas exchange with the ambient atmosphere in order to adjust pH provide oxygen and to help maintain temperature control. However gas at any given location within the multi shelved flask resides at a different distance from the vent location. Since the distance between gas at the farthest point and gas at the closest point to the vent increases as the number of culture compartments within the multi shelved flask is increased during scale up gradients in COand Oconcentrations can develop throughout the gas within the multi shelved flask. Therefore the multi shelved flask design has an inherent potential for non uniform culture conditions to exist throughout the device and the problem is compounded during scale up.

There are a number of static cell culture devices that perform gas transfer by making the lower wall of the device gas permeable. Gas diffuses through the gas permeable lower wall in response to concentration gradients that develop between the culture medium and the ambient gas. This approach eliminates the gas liquid interface as the sole source of gas exchange. Since the surface that cells reside upon is gas permeable more uniform culture conditions can exist throughout the culture than the multi shelved flask. Bags are static gas permeable devices that integrate a single culture compartment. To scale a culture up the bag must elongate in the horizontal direction to create more surface area for cells to reside upon. Thus they quickly become unwieldy and outsize cell culture incubators during scale up. Bags are commercially available from OriGen Biomedical Group ORIGEN PERMALIFE Bags Baxter LIFECELL X FOLD related to U.S. Patent Nos. 4 829 002 4 937 194 5 935 847 6 297 046 B1 Medtronic SI CULTURE U.S. Pat. No. 5 686 304 Biovectra VECTRACELL and American Fluoroseal VUELIFE Culture Bag System covered by U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 847 462 and 4 945 203 . Gas permeable cartridges are devices that operate in the same manner as bags except they have rigid sidewalls. Commercially available gas permeable cartridges include CLINICELL Culture Cassettes provided by Laboratories MABIO INTERNATIONAL and OPTICELL gas permeable cartridges U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 455 310 and 6 410 309 provided by BioChrystal Ltd. As with bags in order to provide more surface area for cells to reside upon these devices must elongate in the horizontal direction. In U.S. Pat. No. 6 821 772 the inventor of OPTICELL has proposed multiple gas permeable compartments. Unfortunately the proposal merely increases the number of culture compartments in the horizontal direction. Thus regardless of the number of culture compartments increasing the culture capacity of these devices requires that they be made larger in the horizontal direction. None of these gas permeable devices are capable of scaling in the vertical direction.

In an attempt to utilize space more efficiently U.S. Pat. No. 6 673 595 describes the scale up of OPTICELL gas permeable cartridges by stacking individual physically distinct cartridges in the vertical direction and handling each individual cartridge with a very complex automated system. This scale up approach deviates markedly from the simplicity afforded by the traditional multi shelved flask.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 759 245 described a multilayered gas permeable culture device that separates oxygen delivery from medium delivery by use of a gas permeable liquid impermeable membrane. This invention is based on the discovery that if the flows of liquid medium and oxygenated fluid are separated by a gas permeable liquid impermeable membrane and the cells are grown attached to the liquid side of the membrane the device can be used to culture cells with the transport of oxygen through the membrane without regard for the flow rate of liquid medium passing through the device. The advantage being that the flow rate of liquid medium is no longer dependent on the need to carry oxygen to the cells. However although the flow of medium is substantially lowered as it is only needed to carry substrates such as glucose it precludes the ability to culture suspension cells since they will be washed from the device during use. In this approach cells must be attached to a collagen matrix. Another disadvantage is the need to perfuse the gas space and or the liquid space. This requires pumps fluid lines and a greatly elevated level of complexity relative to traditional multiple shelf flasks. Thus this approach has not been commercialized.

Gas permeable devices that make more efficient use of space are described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 961 814 Wilson et al. . Among the gas permeable devices described in Wilson et al. 814 are those that allow culture scale up in the vertical direction while retaining the simplicity of the traditional multi shelved flask. For example Wilson et al. 814 describe the vertical scale up of gas permeable devices comprised of shelves stacked one above the other for cells to reside upon. Gas transfer occurs through the walls of the device. Unlike the scale up of traditional gas permeable devices increasing culture size can be achieved by increasing the size of the device in the vertical direction as opposed to the horizontal direction. Since there is no need for a gas liquid interface this allows optimal space efficiency during vertical scale up of a culture. A more compact device is attained relative to the multi shelved flask. Attributes not possible in the traditional multi shelved flask are present. For example the device can be inverted to allow adherent cells to be cultured on the upper and lower surfaces of the stacked shelves to further optimize space efficiency. The invention described herein expands upon the gas permeable advantages described in co pending Wilson et al. 814 to create new geometry that provides a superior alternative to the traditional multiple shelf flask.

It is an object of the present invention to provide improved cell culture devices and methods that minimize the potential for non uniform culture conditions to exist throughout the device allow space efficient culture scale up of adherent or suspension cells are easy to use can function without need to perfuse medium or gas and allow the user to make effective use of the upper lower or sidewall surfaces of each culture compartment. Still further objects and advantages will become apparent from consideration of the ensuing description and drawings.

The present invention overcomes many of the disadvantages of existing static cell culture devices by integrating at least two gas permeable culture compartments that at least in part maintain a gas space between them in order to allow gas to contact the gas permeable area of the culture compartments. This allows each culture compartment to exchange gas directly with the gas space adjacent to the culture compartment minimizing the potential for non uniform culture conditions. Selected surfaces of the culture compartments can be made gas permeable to provide gas exchange on the surface opposite cells and or adjacent to cells. Surfaces inside the culture compartments can be comprised of various materials to provide optimal surfaces for cells to reside upon. Surface area inside the culture compartments can be increased if desired such as may be the case when adherent cells or cells that thrive in a three dimensional matrix are cultured. It is also possible for cells to reside directly upon the gas permeable material of the culture compartments. Scaling the device can be accomplished by adding culture compartments such that at least in part a gas space exists between each culture compartment in order to allow gas to contact the gas permeable area of the culture compartments. Access to the culture compartments can occur by way of a common manifold common manifolds or by discrete access to each compartment. With this configuration it is possible to scale cultures in a simple format that is easy to use makes efficient use of space and minimizes the potential for non uniform culture conditions to occur. Various features can be included and configurations can be structured to provide additional benefits including the ability for the device to be operated in more than one position allow the culture of adherent cells allow the culture of suspension cells allow co culture prevent cells from exiting their respective culture compartments during routine handling minimizing feeding frequency replicate traditional flask protocols allow the surface area for cells to reside upon to be increased or decreased during culture allow the ratio of medium volume to the surface area for cells to reside upon to be increased or decreased during culture and or to allow the cells to reside on or in proximity of alternative materials.

In one aspect of the present invention each culture compartment includes a first wall and an opposing second wall the first wall and or the second wall being comprised of gas permeable material and a gas space is present between at least a portion of each culture compartment.

In another aspect of the present invention each culture compartment includes several walls including but not limited to a first wall and an opposing second wall a third wall and an opposing fourth wall and a fifth wall the first wall and or second wall and or third wall and or fourth wall and or fifth wall being comprised of gas permeable material and a gas space is adjacent to at least the gas permeable portion of each culture compartment.

In another aspect of the present invention the culture compartments are connected in parallel by one manifold. The manifold can be configured to prevent gas from displacing medium held within the culture compartments and or can be configured to retain cells in the culture compartments during handling and or can be configured to retain medium and gas in the culture compartments.

In another aspect of the present invention the culture compartments are connected in parallel by more than one manifold.

In another aspect of the present invention a culture compartment support resides between culture compartments to maintain the culture compartments in a substantially horizontal position and or allow gas to contact the gas permeable surfaces of the culture compartments.

In another aspect of the present invention walls of the culture compartments include projections that make contact with at least one of its neighboring culture compartments in order to maintain the culture compartments in a substantially horizontal position and allow gas to contact the gas permeable surfaces of the culture compartments.

In another aspect of the present invention structure is provided to prevent walls of the culture compartments from making contact with neighboring walls of the culture compartment.

In another aspect of the present invention direct access to each of the culture compartments is possible.

In another aspect of the present invention contact between ambient gas and the gas space of the gas permeable multi shelf device can be selectively terminated restricted or unrestricted.

In another aspect of the present invention a method of expanding cells from one culture compartment to multiple culture compartments is possible.

In another aspect of the present invention when the gas permeable multi shelf culture device is oriented such that cells are residing on the lower most culture surfaces of the culture compartments at least a portion of one culture compartment does not have a culture compartment directly above it in order to facilitate microscopic evaluation.

In another aspect of the present invention when the gas permeable multi shelf culture device is oriented such that cells are residing on the lower most culture surfaces of the culture compartments the gas space between the lowest culture compartment and the culture compartment residing above it allows light to be present above the lowest culture compartment to facilitate inverted microscopic evaluation of the lowest culture compartment.

In another aspect of the present invention a method of co culturing cells is possible by seeding cells to a culture surface and repositioning the device to allow another inoculum of cells to gravitate to a different culture surface.

In another aspect of the present invention a method of culturing cells on a particular surface at a particular oxygen tension and a particular medium height and or at a particular medium volume to surface area ratio is available by merely rotating the device to reposition the cells from surface to surface. It is also possible to culture at least five different cell lines each residing on a different wall of the culture compartment.

In another aspect of the present invention culture compartments are fabricated as an integral unit to minimize the number of seals.

In another aspect of the present invention the gas permeable multi shelf device can be configured to retain the features of commercially available traditional multiple shelf flasks while resolving the problems of non uniform culture conditions.

In another aspect of the present invention the use of gas permeable liquid permeable materials are disclosed for use in a gas permeable cell culture device that includes a culture compartment support and a sterility barrier between the gas space and the ambient gas.

In another aspect of the present invention structuring gas permeable devices with plasma charged silicone for the purpose of minimizing migration to other surfaces is disclosed.

As shown in manifold creates a fluid pathway between culture compartments . Access port allows fluid and cells to be added and removed. In this illustration access port includes a neck and cap covers access port in the manner of a traditional flask. However the access port s can be any configuration s and can be located in any location s that meet the objective of moving fluid into and out of the gas permeable multi shelved device. Those skilled in the art of cell culture device design will recognize that there are many ways to achieve that objective including many closed system configurations which may include the use of septums quick disconnect fittings or tubing configured for sterile splicing.

Gas space need not be an enclosed aspect of the device. It need not have forced gas flow or be adapted for forced gas flow in order for the device to function. In the simplest and preferred form it is just ambient gas in contact with any or all of the gas permeable portions of the device. However one or more walls can surround it.

In a simple method of operation medium and cells are delivered into the gas permeable multi shelf device and gas permeable multi shelf device is placed into a standard cell culture incubator oriented such that cells gravitate to the desired surface. In a more complex mode of operation additional inoculations can be undertaken to allow cells to gravitate to additional surfaces. For example by periodically repositioning the device during inoculation cells can reside on all culture surfaces.

Each culture surface can be any suitable material and any shape that is useful for culturing cells and may be or may not be integral to the walls of the culture compartments. For example the culture surface could simply be the inner surface of the wall that comprises the culture compartment and may be tissue culture treated or not. It could be material that is laminated to the wall of the culture compartment such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 935 847. It could be a material that is physically separate from the wall of the culture compartment such as a separate part fabricated of polystyrene that resides upon the wall and may or may not be affixed to the wall such as a fibronectin or a collagen matrix insert. There is no restriction on the use of any culture surface that is known to those skilled in the art of cell and tissue culture.

Although and show gas transfer through specific walls any wall of the gas permeable multi shelf device can be gas permeable. A variety of advantages become available because oxygen can be delivered to cells directly through the surface they reside upon and or through the sidewalls of the culture compartments and or through the manifold wall s . Wilson et al. 814 describe the advantages that can be obtained by increasing the height of medium that can reside in a gas permeable culture compartment. Medium height in the gas permeable multi shelf device can increase far beyond the 2 mm to 3 mm limits of traditional flasks thereby minimizing the frequency of medium exchange reducing labor and reducing contamination risk. Thus when gas transfer occurs across a gas permeable wall of a culture compartment it may be beneficial to structure the culture compartment so that the distance between the gas permeable wall and the opposing wall allows medium height to increase. The optimum distance will depend upon the metabolic demand of the culture and the desired frequency of medium exchange.

To advance the objective of establishing uniform culture conditions in the gas permeable multi shelf device the design should include the objective of placing an approximately equal number of cells within each culture compartment and facilitating an approximately uniform distribution of those cells throughout each culture compartment. Making the geometry of each culture compartment virtually identical structuring the opposing walls of each culture compartment to be approximately parallel and allowing the culture compartments to reside in a horizontal position so that cells can gravitate uniformly upon the culture surface can help achieve that objective. Then when cells are in a uniform suspension during inoculation and the culture surface is of uniform geometry the inoculum will reside at a uniform volume above the culture surface of each culture compartment and cells will settle in a uniform distribution upon the culture surface of each culture compartment. In the case where culture surfaces are not flat such as when corrugated surfaces are present configuring the culture compartments to have an equal volume of space above each unit of culture surface area can assist uniform cell distribution during inoculation. For example if the culture surface was corrugated and the opposing wall was also corrugated the volume of space between the corrugated opposing wall and the culture surface would remain constant along the length of the culture compartment. Regardless of culture surface geometry configuring the culture compartments so that an approximately equal volume of inoculum is present at any given section within the culture compartment can help achieve uniform cell distribution.

Preferably when a manifold is used to deliver medium to the culture compartments the manifold should be structured to allow inoculum to distribute evenly into each culture compartment and to minimize the number of cells that settle within the manifold. Making the volume of manifold no larger than needed to allow medium to quickly and easily fill the culture compartments is beneficial since cells residing in the volume of medium retained in manifold will settle to the bottom of manifold and not be at the identical culture conditions as cells residing in the culture compartments. Although manifold volume should be minimized during inoculation to prevent cells from gravitating to undesired areas it can be useful to allow excess volume of medium to reside in the manifold to reduce device height since that medium can contribute to the ratio of medium volume to surface area within each culture compartment. Stated differently medium volume in the manifold can make substrates available to cells residing in the cell compartments.

In some applications it may be desirable to alter the shape or volume of the manifold during use. Structuring the manifold to change shape or volume should be done in a manner that does not allow contamination such as may be achieved by flexible walls or the use of gaskets or o rings. For example it may be desirable to deliver cells to culture compartments by way of a common manifold and prevent cells from moving from one culture compartment to another or from a culture compartment into the manifold. When the device is to be handled in a manner that may orient the culture compartments in a position that would inadvertently allow cells to exit the culture compartment. Blocking the opening or openings of the culture compartments can prevent that. As another example it may be helpful to alter the volume of medium residing in the manifold at some point during use as may be the case when cells have attached within the culture compartments and more medium volume is useful for minimizing the feeding frequency. In this case the manifold can be structured to increase in volume. In other applications not filling the culture compartment entirely with medium may be advantageous as may be the case when the desired culture surface area to medium volume ratio dictates that medium should reside at a height that is lower than the height of the culture compartment. and show an illustration of how these objectives may be accomplished. In manifold wall of gas permeable multi shelf device is in a first position that allows cells and medium to be introduced into culture compartments by way of manifold via access ports . shows manifold wall in a second position in which manifold has collapsed to block the opening of culture compartments preventing cells or medium from exiting culture compartments . Culture compartments can be partially filled with medium so that medium and gas reside in the culture compartments and manifold wall can be moved into the position of to prevent loss of medium into manifold . However this embodiment also allows gas permeable multi shelf device to be entirely filled with medium without need of moving manifold wall .

Movement of manifold wall can also be useful when medium is reduced in temperature during use. For example the culture of islets is often initiated at 37 C and then reduced to 22 C. When the gas permeable multi shelf device is a closed body and filled with medium medium will contract as temperature drops. Many gas permeable materials are highly flexible. Thus the walls of the device can move to maintain contact with the medium when medium contracts. When the walls move and cells are uniformly distributed on the walls cells can be displaced from a uniform position to uncontrolled density and thus the viability of the culture can be compromised. Therefore the ability to alter the volume of the manifold to accommodate a reduction in medium volume can prevent the displacement of the cells from their uniform position.

If desired feet can elevate the gas permeable multi shelf device. Feet allow gas to access the underside of the device and or prevent scratches to the second wall . Feet can be present in any embodiment and the upper wall of the device can be adapted to allow one device to reside above the other in an interlocking manner.

Connecting the culture compartments in parallel with more than one manifold can allow gas to be more easily displaced by liquid entering the device. For example when one manifold is used gas is displaced in the opposite direction of medium entering the manifold. As the height of culture compartments is reduced in a gas permeable multi shelved device with one manifold tilting the gas permeable multi shelved device can become necessary to expedite the displacement of gas. Creating an additional manifold can allow the gas to displace in a direction other than that at which medium is entering the device and can reduce or eliminate the need for tilting thereby simplifying automated fluid handling. In test fixture evaluations intended to determine if culture compartments can be primed without need of tilting the device priming without tilting was achieved when the volume of medium in the manifolds was about 7.0 of the total volume in the test fixture. and show one embodiment that utilizes two manifolds. shows gas permeable multi shelf device with a wall removed to expose culture compartments . Gas space resides between culture compartments . In this illustration gas space is an opening through the entire body of gas permeable multi shelf device . shows gas permeable multi shelf device with a section removed to expose culture compartments first wall and manifold . and show cross sectional view C C of exposing culture compartments gas space and manifold . In this embodiment as liquid enters access port and primes manifold and culture compartments gas is displaced via another manifold on the distal end of culture compartments and a secondary access port .

The height of the culture compartments can vary to allow a wider variety of protocols. For example it may be beneficial if the volume of trypsin used is minimized or medium height is increased. and illustrate one configuration for how that can be accomplished by simply making the device of flexible material that is pleated so that the culture compartment s can rise or collapse in height. For example the housing and or material bounding gas spaces can be flexible. In this manner the gas permeable multi shelf device can be expanded to accommodate more or less volume in each culture compartment which may be desired to allow a reduction in feeding frequency reduced use of trypsin and or PBS and or a change in the gas permeable surface area to culture compartment volume. In this depiction manifold walls are pleated but the device can be adapted to allow a change in culture compartment height by a variety other means including those described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 229 820. Skilled artisans will recognize a variety of ways to allow this attribute.

A factor in optimal performance of the gas permeable multi shelf device is the orientation of the culture compartments during use. During use the gas permeable multi shelf device should preferably be in a substantially horizontal position for uniform cell distribution onto the cell culture surface. The culture compartment support may be as simple as culture compartment support shown in . In this case culture compartment support merely provides simple structural support to prevent culture compartments from collapsing upon each other. However depending on the stiffness of the materials that comprise the walls of the culture compartments it may be advantageous to form a more elaborate culture compartment support. For example some important cell culture applications are best conducted in very controlled geometry that is directed at the deposit of cells in very uniform distribution such as the culture of islets hepatocytes and multipotent adult progenitor cells. For example islets will aggregate when in contact at high surface density and multipotent adult progenitor cells can differentiate if they are too close to one another. Hepatocytes and islets also have a need for a high rate of gas transmission to retain health. Thus the most robust culture compartment support will allow a uniform distribution by maintaining the wall that cells are gravitating to in a substantially horizontal position and not overly restrict gas transmission. To obtain these benefits the culture compartment support will make contact with the culture compartment walls. The number of contact points distance between contact points and amount of surface area of the gas permeable material in direct contact with the culture compartment support are among the design factors to consider. Example 1 and Example 2 provide additional guidance.

Although it can be permanently affixed to the gas permeable multi shelf device the culture compartment support does not need to be. This may be desirable when a user has a need to convert the device for a more controlled application or to reduce manufacturing cost. and show an embodiment in which the culture compartment support is reusable and the body of the gas permeable multi shelved device is disposable. In culture compartment support is shown detached from gas permeable multi shelf device . In culture compartment support has been placed in contact with gas permeable multi shelf device . Projections emanate from culture compartment support . The height and distance between projections should be designed with the objective of making enough contact with the culture compartments of the gas permeable multi shelved device to hold the cell culture compartments in a substantially horizontal state such that a uniform cell deposit can be achieved during inoculation. However contact with the gas permeable surfaces diminishes gas transfer capacity. Therefore a balance between the desire for a horizontal state and the degree of desired gas transfer must be considered. Depending on the type of cells being cultured there can be more than one optimum design. Gas access openings can be present when more access to ambient conditions is desired. In the absence of gas access openings gas will move between the surface that projections emanate from such as surface s and the culture compartment resistance to gas exchange is a function of the number of projections the height of the projections and the width of the device. In this illustration to demonstrate the versatile range of design options the first wall of the uppermost culture compartment has not been held in position by culture compartment support . That is possible if the culture compartment comes to a horizontal state if filled with a fluid or a pressurized fluid or if it is comprised of a stiff material. Also second wall of the culture compartment need not make contact with the culture compartment support if it is comprised of a stiff enough material to retain its shape when medium resides within it.

The culture compartments themselves can be structured to perform the role of allowing ambient gas to communicate with the neighboring culture compartment while maintaining desired geometry. Wilson et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 693 537 describe how a wall with projections can be used to provide support for an adjacent wall of the culture compartment. shows a cross sectional view that provides one example of how the desired shape can be maintained. In this example first wall of gas permeable multi shelf device is formed of a rigid material and the gas permeable second wall is comprised of a flexible material such as dimethyl silicone. Wall projections emanate from the surface of second wall in order to maintain gas space . Wilson et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 714 384 show how the projections can be used to increase the surface area for gas transfer. It will be understood by skilled artisans that the projections could emanate from the surface of the second wall to make contact with the first wall of the neighboring culture compartment or from the upper and second walls. Alternatively projections emanating from the outside surfaces of the walls of the culture compartments could interlock with each other or with the culture compartments supports. As another approach all walls can be flexible and they can take the desired shape when medium fills the culture compartments.

The upper and lower walls and or upper and lower culture surface of a given culture compartment should not make contact with each other. For example when one culture surface is tissue culture treated and contact with the opposing wall can potentially affect the tissue culture treated surface an internal spacer can be placed within the culture compartments to ensure contact is prevented. The internal spacer can be any biocompatible material and should be configured to allow medium and fluid to easily move into and out of the culture compartment. The internal spacer need not be a separate part as maintaining the desired space between any walls and or culture surfaces can be achieved by projections emanating from the upper and or lower walls and or upper and or lower culture surfaces. shows an illustrative example in which internal spacer of gas permeable multi shelf device is a boss that emanates from culture surface or wall . Those skilled in the art will recognize that the internal spacer can be constructed in a wide variety of ways provided that those ways do not prevent medium from entering or exiting the culture compartments.

The ability to microscopically observe cells in culture can be impeded when the culture compartments are stacked vertically as the light is diminished. Thus offsetting a culture compartment from the stack as described in co pending Wilson et al. 814 can be useful in allowing the use of an inverted microscope. Another option is to make the gas space capable of receiving light so that inverted microscopic observation is possible. To do so the distance between the culture compartments should be great enough to allow a light source to illuminate the contents of the lowest culture compartment. The intensity of the light will depend upon the materials of the culture compartment and the height of the medium. Optically clear materials are preferred.

In some cases there may be a desire to access each culture compartment individually even though they are integral to a common device such as when each culture compartment contains different cell types or a different medium composition for a common cell type. Doing so can be accomplished by a variety of configurations. Preferably the access to each culture compartment is structured so that it can be accomplished by standard liquid handling approaches such as pipetting or pouring or aseptic or closed system approaches like septums or sterile tubing connections. One option is shown in . Culture compartments of gas permeable multi shelf device can be individually accessed by way of access ports in this illustration shown in a septum format. One or more access ports can be connected to each culture compartment . In this illustration gas space is structured so that a user can allow it to be in communication with ambient gas or prevent its communication with ambient gas. Gas space is enclosed by gas space housing . Gas space access openings in gas space housing allow gas space to communicate with the ambient environment. Gas space access openings can be structured to be open and closed as desired. The ability to selectively terminate restrict or open gas movement between gas space and ambient gas can be useful. This feature can be present in any embodiment. For example when the gas permeable multi shelf device is temporarily removed from a COenvironment closing or restricting gas space access openings can prevent or delay a shift in pH. As another example cells of a given cell line can be placed in each compartment the gas space in communication with a given compartment can be primed with a predetermined oxygen concentration the gas space can be closed and the effect of each oxygen concentrations on cell growth and or function can be studied. Those skilled in the art will recognize that a wide variety of methods for opening and closing gas space access openings are available including luer openings and plugs ports and caps and the like.

The novel gas permeable multi shelf device allows protocols not possible in traditional multiple shelf flasks. For example cells can be expanded from one shelf to others. A cycle of inoculating expanding and harvesting an adherent cell population that is not adversely affected by residual trypsin provides one example of how the closed system process can function. shows a cross sectional view of gas permeable multi shelf device with medium and cells residing in the lower culture compartment . To expand the adherent cells to the number of culture compartments shown in a straightforward sequence of events can take place. First medium is removed. PBS is then introduced into the lower culture compartment to flush residual medium. Subsequently PBS is removed. Trypsin or any other detachment material is then introduced into the lower culture compartment to release cells from the attachment surface. Cells can then be redistributed to upper culture compartments by the addition of medium which dilutes trypsin to a level that does not affect cell attachment. If cells are affected by any residual trypsin the cells can be removed and it can be centrifuged out using conventional means. Then the cells can be reintroduced in an appropriate volume of medium such that they come to reside in the desired number of culture compartments. With suspension cells the expansion to additional culture compartments can be as easy as simply adding an appropriate volume of medium. In this manner the use of ancillary devices to create inoculum is minimized relative to traditional multiple shelf flasks greatly simplifying the culture process. Since the gas permeable multi shelf device can be configured for closed system access the probability of contamination is also reduced.

The ability for cells to reside on sidewall surfaces also creates advantages that include the ability to expand cells from a surface area of one size to surfaces of increased size. For example when by orienting the gas permeable multi shelf device in the position shown in the culture can be initiated using a small quantity of inoculum which will reside in proximity of walls . Then when the population of the culture has expanded more surface area can be made available by reorienting the device to the position of . If needed cells can be trypsinized from walls prior to reorienting for increased surface area. If more expansion is needed the device can then be reoriented again to the position of . Subsequently further expansion is possible by the methods described in the previous paragraph.

Any material normally associated with cell culture devices or medical devices can be used throughout the gas permeable multi shelf device. Preferably material that is selected meets the USP VI and or ISO 10993 standard for compatibility. Also optical transparency is desirable as it allows visual detection of contamination and pH. When creating surfaces that are to be observed via inverted microscope a SPE 2 surface or better is preferred.

The gas permeable material used to allow gas transfer into and out of the gas permeable multi shelved device can be comprised of any membrane film material or combination of materials used or previously described for use in gas permeable cell culture devices such as silicone fluoroethylenepolypropylene polyolefin polystyrene film and ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer. Many sources for learning about gas permeable materials and their use in cell culture are available for guidance including but not limited to U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 693 537 6 455 310 6 297 046 International Publication Number WO 01 92462 and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 961 814. An additional source of information can be found in the Plastic Design Library William Andrew Publishing Permeability and Other Film Properties of Plastics and Elastomers 1995. The use of the word silicone throughout this specification includes the formulations described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 045 877.

As described in Wilson et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 693 537 the gas permeable material may be a liquid permeable material. Those materials include membranes that are hydrophilic throughout the cross section such as those comprised of cellulose cellulose acetate and regenerated cellulose. However in experiments that evaluated the use of such material it was discovered that measures for the prevention of contamination not anticipated in Wilson et al. 537 are preferred. Care should be taken to ensure that the material selected has a low enough liquid permeability to retain a desired volume of medium within the culture compartments. Moreover liquid loss can increase osmolarity to a detrimental level. Preferably a material that is selected will have the ability to retain over about 90 of the medium volume in the culture compartment for the interval between feeding at the given static pressure of the medium. During feeding osmolarity can be restored. In the case of two day feeding intervals liquid loss due to static pressure should therefore preferably be limited to a ratio less than about 5 per day of medium volume within the culture device. For example it has been discovered that 10 000 molecular weight cutoff 80M CUPRAPHAN membrane is an acceptable material at medium volumes of at least 10.16 ml of medium per cmof membrane. The material is also thin and capable of providing adequate gas transfer. In an experiment conducted in CELLine CL1000 product fabricated by Wilson Wolf Manufacturing with the lower gas permeable material composed of 80M CUPRAPHAN the ability to culture at least 400 10murine hybridoma cells upon was demonstrated. Other than using 80M CUPRAPHAN as the lower gas permeable membrane all other aspects of the device were the same as the commercially available product which integrates a non liquid permeable gas permeable membrane. In this experiment the surface density was at least 4 10cells cmof gas permeable membrane. However although no contamination was detected within the culture compartment the outside of the membrane became contaminated. Thus constructing the gas permeable multi shelf device with gas permeable liquid permeable material should preferably restrict access to the gas space by the use of gas space access openings to the gas space that are covered with a sterile filter. Any gas permeable filtration material typically used to prevent contamination such as microporous membranes can be used. To best prevent contamination pore size can range from 0.45 m down and is preferably at 0.2 m. However the use of gas permeable liquid impermeable material is not limited to just the gas permeable multi shelf device embodiments. Other gas permeable configurations including those as simple for example as the OPTICELL product partially described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 821 772 could integrate at least one gas permeable liquid permeable membrane such as CUPRAPHAN . As another example the Slide A Lyzer Dialysis Cassettes U.S. Pat. No. 5 503 741 normally not associated with cell culture could be used as a culture device with a preferred configuration that included a gas space in contact with either or both of the dialysis membranes and by the use of gas space access openings to the gas space that are covered with a sterile filter.

When configuring the gas permeable multi shelf device such that it can be oriented in a first position in which suspension cells are cultured or oriented in an alternative position in which adherent cells are cultured a preferred configuration of construction of the gas permeable multi shelf device should be such that one culture surface of the cell compartments is hydrophobic and a different surface is hydrophilic. An example can be illustrated by any of the cross sectional drawing. For instance referring to first wall could be gas permeable and its inner surface could be tissue culture treated to create one culture surface while the inner surface of second wall could be hydrophobic to create another culture surface. Thus to culture adherent cells the gas permeable multi shelf device would be operated with first wall residing below second wall . Thus to culture suspension cells the gas permeable multi shelf device would be operated with second wall residing below first wall . Co culture could be conducted when adherent cells attached to first wall and then the device is reoriented to allow suspension cells to reside upon second wall . A useful material to culture suspension cells upon is silicone and a typical material to culture adherent cells upon tissue treated polystyrene. Therefore in this example a preferred embodiment would be where second wall is comprised of silicone and the culture surface of first wall is comprised of tissue culture treated polystyrene. However it was discovered that if silicone is used it can migrate during gamma irradiation or e beam sterilization and coat tissue treated surface within the culture compartments. This renders the tissue treated surfaces suboptimal for adherent cells. Thus popular methods of sterilization are not practical when the most useful materials are present. Other methods of sterilization are problematic. For example ETO will be retained in the silicone and without a very extensive flush of the toxins an unhealthy environment for cells will exist. Chemical means of sterilization are also require a flush. Attempts to correct the problem through the addition of colorant to the silicone and or variations in cure temperature and time and or pre exposing the silicone to gamma irradiation at high doses and or changing the distance from the silicone to the polystyrene did not eliminate the problem. However it was discovered that plasma charging the silicone prior to submitting the device to gamma irradiation showed the ability to minimize or eliminate the migration of silicone onto the polystyrene surfaces. Therefore a preferred process of using silicone in the presence of tissue culture treated surfaces preferably polystyrene is to ensure that the silicone is plasma charged prior to gamma irradiation. This approach to the formation of a cell culture device is not limited to the gas permeable multi shelf device. This approach allows any gas permeable culture device to integrate plasma charged silicone in the presence of tissue treated surfaces with the benefit of preventing migration of silicone during traditional sterilization methods such as gamma irradiation or e beam. For example the devices described by Wilson et al. 814 or in U.S. Pat. No. 6 821 772 would benefit by the use of plasma charged silicone in the presence of treated surfaces. For example the commercially available OPTICELL product could integrate one gas permeable tissue culture treated polystyrene surface and an opposing gas permeable surface comprised of plasma charged silicone. In this manner when sterilized by standard methods suspension cells could be cultured upon the surface comprised of silicone and or adherent cells could be cultured upon the surface comprised of polystyrene. The product could integrate traditional distances between membranes as currently is the case or increased distances as described in Wilson et al. 814.

In a preferred approach all culture compartments are molded as an integral piece with a common flange that can be secured to a manifold wall. shows integral culture compartments which are a series of molded gas permeable material compartments preferably dimethyl silicone including a flange . A rigid piece of plastic acting as a flange support such as polycarbonate can be molded directly i.e. over molded onto the flange to act as a backing for subsequent further assembly. In this depiction a flange support is over molded onto each flange . As shown in the exploded assembly view of flange support mates to manifold wall in a liquid tight manner to form a manifold on each end of the culture compartments. When evaluating the capacity to bond dimethyl silicone to a rigid plastic a liquid tight bond was obtained between dimethyl silicone and biocompatible polycarbonate. The polycarbonate material was placed in a mold and silicone was mated directly to the polycarbonate in a liquid injection molding process. Culture compartment supports can be added such as any the range of configurations described herein and or shown in and . If created as described in the projections can be ribs extended across the entire culture compartment. In the illustration of a series of culture compartment supports are present. Even without need of further modification by introduction of a culture surface this is a useful configuration for a wide variety of suspension cells. However the addition of culture surfaces remains optional. When the intended application may include the use of adherent cells it is preferred that the inner surface of the silicone by covered with a typical adherent surface appropriate for the type of cells being cultured. For a wide variety of adherent cells inserting a layer of tissue treated polystyrene as a culture surface can be useful. That allows a wider variety of culture protocols. For example to culture both adherent and suspension cells the device would be oriented to allow adherent cells to gravitate to the tissue treated culture surface and post attachment rotated one hundred eighty degrees to allow suspension cells to reside upon the opposing silicone wall.

If the configurations of are created with the intent of including a tissue treated culture surface other than silicone plasma charging the silicone to prevent migration during e beam or gamma sterilization can be avoided by covering all the inner silicone surfaces with a different culture surface. For example thin tissue treated polystyrene can be inserted in a manner that covers all of the silicone. When manifold wall is not a material that migrates the treated polystyrene surfaces will remain suitable for adherent culture. Although the culture surface in this example polystyrene provides a surface for cells to attach to it impedes gas transfer into the cell culture compartment relative to what it would be if it were just silicone. Thus the culture surface or surfaces that cells are intended to reside upon should be thin so that gas transfer can still be adequate. Preferably the thickness in the area of the polystyrene that cells reside upon is about 0.003 inches or less. This approach reduces the number of joints and the potential for leakage while providing culture surfaces that are suitable for any given application.

Example 1 and Example 2 assessed alternate geometry of the culture compartment support in order to demonstrate quantitatively how the gas permeable multi shelf flask has the capacity to resolve the traditional flasks excessive use of shipping sterilization storage incubator and disposal space while simultaneously minimizing the potential for non uniform culture conditions to exist.

Example 3 describes how plasma charging silicone prior to gamma irradiation can limit or prevent its migration onto tissue culture treated polystyrene surfaces thereby allowing silicone and tissue culture treated plastics to co exist in the same culture compartment without need to deviate from standard sterilization processes.

The physical structure of a culture compartment support that would allow an improvement in islet culture known to be one of the highest types of cultures for oxygen demand was demonstrated by constructing a test fixture that had its lower wall comprised of a molded dimethyl silicone sheet with an average thickness measured at about 0.0072 inches thick and a surface area of 98 cm. Gas transmission of the dimethyl silicone rubber was determined by MOCON Minneapolis Minn. using their Oxtran 2 21 Instrument in accordance with ASTM 1927 to be about 14 300 ml 100 in 24 hours at 37 C. The culture compartment that supported the dimethyl silicone consisted of a 0.048 cm thick 46 open mesh in direct contact with the silicone. The open mesh was comprised of a series of polypropylene strands each with a diameter of between 0.018 0.020 inches thick arranged vertically and horizontally such that 16 strands were present per inch of horizontal distance and per inch of vertical distance. The mesh was held in place by a molded polycarbonate plastic sheet of a thickness of 0.19 cm with uniformly distributed projections that elevated the mesh above the sheet so that a gas space resided below the membrane. Each projection was a uniformly shaped Y while each leg of the Y oriented 120 degrees apart. The length of each leg was 0.45 cm and the width was 0.127 cm. Thus the surface area of each projection available to support the mesh was about 0.175 cm. About 1.1 projections resided per cm. Thus the cumulative surface area of the projections available to support the mesh was about 18.87 cm. The height of each projection was 0.127 cm from the plastic sheet. A gas space resided between the bottom of the silicone and the top of the plastic sheet. The cumulative volume of gas displaced by the projections was 2.4 cm. The cumulative volume of gas displaced by the mesh was 2.54 cm. Therefore the gas residing underneath the silicone membrane and above the plastic sheet was about 17.2 ml. The ratio of the gas residing underneath the silicone membrane and above the plastic sheet to gas permeable membrane surface area was 17.6 . The plastic sheet included through holes acting as gas access openings the cross section of each being oriented perpendicular to the plane of the plastic sheet for the purpose of allowing ambient gas to communicate with the gas space by passive diffusion. Five uniformly spaced through holes resided below the 98 cmsurface area of the dimethyl silicone each hole having a cross sectional area of 0.29 cmand a length of 0.075 in created a cumulative cross sectional area of 1.45 cm. Thus the ratio of the cross sectional area of the through holes to the cross sectional area of the silicone membrane was about 1.45 cm 98 cm or about 1.48 . The ratio of the cross sectional area of the through holes to the volume of gas residing between the silicone membrane and the upper surface of the plastic sheet was thus 1.45 cm 17.2 ml or about 8.4 . Feet elevated the bottom of the plastic sheet 0.51 cm. Thus the total height of the culture compartment support residing below the silicone membrane was 0.87 cm.

An initial assessment was conducted using porcine islets to determine what the ratio of medium volume to IE would be needed. Porcine islets were cultured at 37 C. for 2 days in small GP devices with a dimethyl silicone surface area of 18 cm at 200 IE cmand medium dilutions at 1 l IE and 4 l IE showed no statistical difference in islet viability as assessed by OCR DNA. For 5 porcine isolations the OCR DNA at 4 l IE ranged from 97.5 to 102.4 of that at 1 l IE with the combined average at 101 . Based on this finding a medium dilution ratio of 1 l IE was used for the bulk of the evaluations described in Example 1 and Example 2.

Islets from 10 porcine isolations were used in a series of experiments with the primary objective of determining if surface density beyond conventional methods ranging from about 1000 IE cmto 2551 IE cmby manual counts 490 IE cmto 2551 IE cmby DNA counts in the GP devices could be achieved without loss in fractional viability relative to flask controls i.e. gas liquid interface at conventional surface density less than about 200 IE cmby manual counts. Non GP devices controls were present with the hypothesis that a compartment support structure that only rendered the surface that cells resided upon horizontal and not providing gas delivery would render poor islet viability. In question was the ability of the culture compartment support structured as described above to allow adequate oxygen delivery to the islets while managing to maintain islets in a uniform distribution absent the loss of health from aggregation. The GP devices were structured such that islets were uniformly distributed across the 98 cmsurface of dimethyl silicone. Average islet surface density in GP devices was 1526 IE cmby manual counts. Based upon the ratio of fractional viability of GP devices to that of representative flask controls GP devices showed equal viability with a standard deviation of 9.4 and a p value of 0.9987. Thus the ability for the culture compartment support to allow passive gas transfer into the culture compartment at a rate that allowed at least an average 7 fold increase in surface density relative to traditional methods without loss of islet viability as determined by OCR DNA was demonstrated. This demonstrates that a culture compartment support can be structured to allow ambient gas to be present on the opposite side of a culture compartment support relative to the gas permeable surface in proximity of the culture compartment support passively move along the culture compartment support then perpendicular to the surface upon which cells reside and then passively circulate below the gas permeable surface upon which cells reside while providing enough oxygen transfer to support islets at beyond seven times that allowed in traditional culture devices.

A different physical structure of a culture compartment support than that of Example 1 was examined in another islet culture application. In this example test fixtures included virtually identical gas permeable material as that of Example 1. The culture compartment that supported the dimethyl silicone consisted of an open mesh in direct contact with the silicone and a machined polycarbonate plastic sheet supported the mesh in a generally horizontal position. Unlike the culture compartment support of Example 1 the mesh resided directly upon the upper surface of the plastic sheet. The mesh geometry and material composition was identical to that of Example 1. For each cmof silicone membrane surface area the volume of gas between the lower surface of the silicone and the upper surface of the plastic bottom after displacement by the mesh was 0.022 ml. Stated differently the ratio of gas volume between the plastic sheet and the gas permeable membrane to the surface area of the gas permeable membrane was 2.2 . In order to allow ambient gas to communicate with the gas space by passive diffusion through holes acting as gas access openings were present in the plastic bottom the cross section of each being oriented perpendicular to the plane of the mesh. Each through hole had a diameter of 0.125 inches. The through holes where uniformly spaced in a grid pattern below the dimethyl silicone such that the distance between the center of each hole was 0.375 inches. Each through hole had a length of 0.13 inches. The ratio of the cross sectional area of the through holes to the cross sectional area of the silicone membrane was about 16 of the membrane surface area. The ratio of the cross sectional area of the through holes to the gas volume between the plastic sheet and the gas permeable membrane was 273 . Since the mesh had a height of about 0.019 inches the cumulative distance between the dimethyl silicone and the gas residing under the plastic bottom was about 0.15 inches. Eight uniformly distributed feet elevated portions of the perimeter of the plastic bottom 0.41 cm from the surface of the shelf upon which it resided. The perimeter of the bottom was 23.94 cm. The cross sectional area between the underside of the plastic bottom and the surface upon which it resided that was thereby open to movement of ambient gas was 7.59 cm. Ignoring the feet as a restrictor to gas movement the cross sectional area about the perimeter open to gas movement to the location of the gas permeable dimethyl silicone was 9.85 cm. Thus the height of the culture compartment support was about 0.5 inches.

Islets from 5 porcine isolations were used in a series of experiments with the primary objective of determining if surface density beyond conventional averaging an estimated 1628 IE cmby manual counts 927 IE cmby DNA counts in GP devices could be achieved without loss in fractional viability relative to flask controls and non GP devices. In question was the ability of the culture compartment support structured as described above to allow adequate oxygen delivery to the islets while managing to maintain islets in a uniform distribution absent the loss of health from aggregation. If islets were to demonstrate similar viability relative to control as shown in Example 1 the ability to create alternative geometry for culture compartment supports would be demonstrated. A primary difference in geometry is that Example 1 utilized projections whereas Example 2 allowed the mesh to reside directly upon a flat plastic bottom. To compensate for the lack of projections the geometry of Example 2 had about an 8 fold increase in the ratio of gas access opening cross sectional area to gas permeable material surface area relative to that of Example 1. Islets were deposited into the GP devices such that islets were uniformly distributed across the surface of dimethyl silicone. Based upon the ratio of fractional viability of GP devices to that of controls representative of flasks GP devices showed identical viability with a standard deviation of 13.8 and a p value of 0.9681. Thus the ability for the alternative geometry of the culture compartment support to allow passive gas transfer into the culture compartment at a rate that allowed at least an average 8 fold increase in surface density relative to traditional methods without loss of islet viability as determined by OCR DNA was demonstrated.

The gas permeable test device configuration was also challenged with very high increases in surface density relative to control ranging from about 7 to 41 times beyond the conventional 200 IE cmsurface densities of flasks. A total of 20 porcine isolations were evaluated at a surface density averaging roughly 18 times greater than the traditional surface density of flasks. There was a greater degree of variability in the data with GP devices exhibiting an average viability of 96.0 of that of controls representative of flasks with a standard deviation of 21.9 and a p value of 0.43.

This information is useful in demonstrating the space advantage of the gas permeable multi shelf device relative to the traditional multiple shelf devices. For example in the field of islet transplants to cure type 1 diabetes a goal is to culture up to 800 000 IE as determined by manual counts. Current flask methods at 200 IE cmsurface densities would require 4000 cmof culture surface area. If using a commercially available traditional multiple shelf flask such as the NUNC Cell Factory creating 4000 cmof culture surface area would require about six of its 632 cmshelves. A NUNC Cell Factor so structured would occupy roughly 416 cubic inches of space and expose islets to potentially non uniform growth conditions. However considering the above examples a gas permeable multi shelf device can culture 800 000 IE in much less space. For instance its ability to culture islets at an average surface density of about 1526 IE cmto 1628 IE cm allows it to only require a culture surface area of about 500 cmto successfully culture 800 000 IE. If six shelves were used in the gas permeable multi shelf device as required by the NUNC Cell Factory each shelf would only need 83 cmof surface area. If medium resided directly above islets each culture compartment would be at a height of about 1.6 cm 0.63 in in order to allow the same feeding frequency as the Cell Factory i.e. 1 uL IE . The height of the culture compartment supports i.e. the vertical distance between culture compartments need not exceed that of the examples. The Examples above demonstrated that each culture compartment support could be 0.344 in high. Dimensionally the gas permeable multi shelf device could be about 5.8 in tall 3.6 in wide and 3.6 in long occupying about 76 inof space. That is well over a 500 reduction in shipping sterilization storage incubator and disposal space when compared to the 416 inof space occupied by traditional multiple shelf flasks. Furthermore the non uniform culture conditions of the traditional flask are overcome. Note that using a configuration such as that shown in could further reduce the distance between the culture compartments as demonstrated by the low foot distance of the culture compartments of the above examples.

Test fixture was constructed as shown in the cross sectional view of . Test sample was fabricated of dimethyl silicone and placed onto the top of the body of a commercially available polystyrene tissue treated six well plate shown as item COSTAR 3516 . The polystyrene lid was then placed onto six well plate . The ability to minimize migration of silicone onto inner lid surface and onto tissue culture treated surface by plasma charging test sample prior to gamma irradiation was evaluated. Test sample resided at a distance of about 1.78 cm from tissue culture treated surface and less than 2 mm from inner lid surface . In one evaluation test sample was subjected to plasma charging prior to placing it within test fixture and the presence of the plasma charge was confirmed by a water drop contact angle of ninety six degrees and a surface energy of less than thirty dynes. In another evaluation test sample was not subjected to plasma charging prior to placing it within test fixture . In both evaluations the assemblies were subsequently subjected to gamma irradiation. Thereafter electron spectroscopy for chemical analysis ESCA was undertaken to quantify the elemental compositions of various surfaces. Tissue culture treated surfaces were assessed for the presence of silicone oxygen and carbon relative to tissue culture treated surfaces of a control 6 well plate that was gamma irradiated absent silicone test sample . Inner lid surfaces were assessed for the presence of silicone. TABLE 1 summarizes the results.

These results show that applying a plasma charge to silicone prior to gamma irradiation prevents unwanted silicone migration and surfaces treated for cell culture remain virtually unaltered. The CORNING six well plate gamma irradiated in the absence of silicone i.e. the control exhibited the presence of about 20 oxygen on its tissue culture treated surface as did the CORNING six well plate that integrated plasma charged silicone. To the contrary the CORNING six well plate that integrated un plasma charged silicone exhibited a greatly altered oxygen composition at 51 . Silicone that was not plasma charged migrated to all surfaces. Silicone that was plasma charged did not independent of the proximity of the surface to the silicone.

This opens the door to new configurations of cell culture devices. In general a simplified method of fabricating cell culture devices is possible including but not limited to those described in and . A culture device that includes a silicone surface and a tissue treated surface can be gamma irradiated with the tissue treated surface virtually unaltered post gamma irradiation independent of its distance from the silicone by plasma charging at least the surfaces of the silicone that are in gas communication with the tissue treated surfaces. Surfaces of silicone that cannot migrate to the tissue treated surfaces need not be plasma irradiated such the outside surface of culture compartments comprised of silicone. Note that surfaces that are only partially comprised of silicone should be plasma charged as described as the silicone portion will migrate during irradiation. In general a simplified method of fabricating cell culture devices is possible. For example a single compartment device such as a basic flask or the OPTICELL gas permeable cartridge can be fabricated by molding a silicone outer housing and inserting a treated polystyrene sheet for cells to reside upon. The unique elongation capabilities of silicone allow the opening through which the culture surface is added to be smaller than the inserted part snapping back to a port shape post insertion. Septum can be present in molded silicone or other styles of access ports can be present. In the case of the basic flask the height of the flask can be substantially reduced as the gas liquid interface approach to oxygenation is eliminated by the use of gas permeable silicone. Referring to added versatility is obtained when first wall is gas permeable silicone and culture surface is an adherent surface such as tissue culture treated polystyrene. In this case the device can be oriented first wall down to culture suspension cells culture surface down to culture adherent cells or to culture adherent and suspension cells as previously described. If co culture of adherent cells is desired an additional culture surface such as very thin gas permeable polystyrene can be inserted adjacent to first wall . The height of the device can be increased to allow various medium volumes to surface area ratios as needed to optimize culture. Fabrication of the device with pleated sidewalls allows volume to change as needed by the user. The gas permeable multi shelf flask can integrate these benefits also.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that numerous modifications can be made thereof without departing from the spirit. Therefore it is not intended to limit the breadth of the invention to the embodiments illustrated and described. Rather the scope of the invention is to be determined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

