---

title: Providing weather data for a location using weather data stored for a finite number of locations
abstract: Methods and systems of the invention provide appropriate weather data for a location by associating it with a location or locations for which weather data is stored. Such stored data may have been collected from one or multiple weather data sources. An image or video may be associated with weather data selected from near-current stored weather data for one or more nearby locations. Certain methods also allow observation and/or forecast weather data for any specified location to be provided using stored weather data for a finite number of locations from one or more weather data sources. For example, the location coordinates of a specified location may be used to determine an appropriate location (exact or substitute) for which weather data was previously collected and stored.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08538696&OS=08538696&RS=08538696
owner: The Weather Channel, LLC
number: 08538696
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070925
---
The invention relates to systems that approximate weather data for a specified location and more specifically relates to providing such weather data using weather data that is periodically collected and stored for a finite number of locations.

There are various sets of observed weather data available from different sources for different sets of weather data locations. For example the National Weather Service along with other public providers like the Federal Aviation Administration and Department of Defense produce over a thousand surface weather observations each hour or more frequently as conditions warrant in the continental United States. In addition some private firms have installed weather instruments that augment the official network of government provided weather observations.

There are also various sets of derived weather data for still different sets of weather data locations. For example U.S. Pat. No. 7 082 382 incorporated herein by this reference describes methods for estimating or deriving weather observations conditions for any given location using observed weather conditions from neighboring locations radar data lightning data satellite imagery etc. Such estimating and deriving techniques may be used to periodically determine weather data for a set of weather data locations. For example The Weather Channel network recently launched its HiRad High Resolution Aggregated Data technology that periodically calculates weather data for 1000 times more locations than was previously available providing another set of periodically stored weather data.

Current systems and methods do not fully utilize the many sources of periodically stored weather data and have limited capabilities if any for providing near real time weather data observations or approximations about locations for which weather data is not stored. A variety of situations exist where a particular location is specified for which the quick retrieval or calculation of an approximation of the current weather conditions or forecasts is desired. For example it may be desirable for an on camera meteorologist OCM to be able to discuss a map during a live video show and retrieve current weather data for the particular location depicted on the map. In such a case it would be desirable to be able to quickly retrieve the most appropriate weather data for the selected location. Accordingly there is a need for systems and methods that can quickly select approximate weather data for a specified location by associating the selected location with a location or locations for which weather data has been collected and stored from one or more weather data sources.

The invention provides observation and or forecast weather data for any specified location using stored weather data preferably stored in a single database for a finite number of locations from one or more weather data sources. Weather data that is provided for a specified location may be exact data for the precise location for example where the specified location is a location for which data is stored. Weather data that is provided for a specified location may also be approximate data for example where data for a nearby location is used as a substitute for data from the specified location or to derive such data. Accordingly an embodiment of the present invention involves using the location coordinates of the specified location to determine an appropriate location exact or substitute for which weather data was previously collected and stored. Embodiments including those in which source weather data is collected from multiple sources offer the advantage of providing more robust complete and accurate weather data for given specified areas. Embodiments including those in which weather data is retrieved from a single database without requiring calculation or derivation offer the advantage of providing near real time access to weather data for a specified location. Other embodiments and advantages will be apparent in view of the following description.

Methods and systems of the invention provide appropriate weather data for a location by associating it with a location or locations for which weather data is stored after being collected from one or multiple weather data sources. Observation and or forecast weather data are determined for any specified location using stored weather data preferably stored in a single database for a finite number of locations from one or more weather data sources. The location coordinates of the specified location may be used to determine one or more appropriate locations exact or substitute for which weather data was previously collected and stored.

Weather data that is near current meaning that it is associated with recent weather may be collected from multiple weather data observation and other systems. Such collected weather data may be stored in one or more databases or in any other suitable electronic or computer format for use in accordance with various aspects of the present invention. Such stored data may be stored with or associated with information about the observation location. For example near current weather data for a location may be stored in a database along with latitude and longitude information that identifies to any appropriate level of granularity the location for which the real or virtual data observations are associated. Note that near weather information may be derived such as information that is derived by The Weather Channel s HiRad technology and thus is in a sense a virtual observation.

Embodiments of the invention utilize near current weather data about a finite number of locations for which real or virtual weather observation information is periodically collected or otherwise retrieved. An embodiment of the present invention involves collecting such near current weather data from one or more systems and storing it in one or more electronic systems that can be conveniently and quickly accessed for a variety of purposes as explained in greater detail herein. In such embodiments because underlying systems may periodically update both measured and virtual observations near current weather data should be periodically retrieved from such systems to refresh the stored weather data with near current weather data. Data from different systems may correspond to data from different observation times and may be weighted or selected from accordingly.

In one embodiment of the present invention location coordinates e.g. longitude and latitude coordinates associated with the selected location are used to select one or more locations for which near current weather data is stored or is obtainable such as weather locations depicted in . For example the latitude and longitude of selected location could be compared with the latitude and longitude of locations for which near current weather data is stored or is obtainable and the location that is closest is selected as a proxy location in the sense that the near current weather data for that location is used as approximate data for the selected location .

As another example the latitude and longitude of selected location could be compared with the latitude and longitude of locations for which near current weather data is stored or is obtainable and the two locations that are closest are selected and averaged to yield approximate data for the selected location .

As another example the latitude and longitude of selected location could be compared with the latitude and longitude of one or more other locations for which near current weather data is stored or is obtainable and one or more locations may be selected based on a rule or algorithm that weighs latitude and longitude differently. In addition data from different sources is not necessarily given equal weight. For example data from a system that updates every few minutes may be given more weight than data from a system that updates less frequently. Likewise data from a system providing only observation may be given greater weight than data from a system that provides data for virtual locations. A variety of other suitable techniques for selecting one or more locations to use will be understood by those of skill in the art.

Embodiments of the present invention including those in which source weather data is collected from multiple sources offer the advantage of providing more robust complete and accurate weather data for given specified areas. Embodiments including those in which weather data is retrieved from a single database without requiring calculation or derivation offer the advantage of providing near real time access to weather data for a specified location. Other embodiments and advantages will be apparent in view of the following description.

In the method shown in a request for near current weather data is sent including the location coordinate information associated with the image as shown in block . Such a request may be initiated manually or automatically for example when an image is selected by an on air personality for display. The request may automatically be sent. The request may have any suitable format including for example any suitable electronic message format.

In the method shown in in response to receiving the request weather data is provided that was selected using near current weather data stored for a plurality of locations as shown in block . The selected weather data is selected using the location coordinate information associated with the image. As described herein the selected weather data may be associated with or derived from weather data for one or more locations for which weather data is periodically stored. The weather data stored for a plurality of locations may comprise weather data retrieved from one or more of at least two different source weather data systems.

In the method shown in the image and the provided weather data are presented as shown in block . For example the image may be displayed on a television program and the provided weather data may be displayed in text form on or around the image. As another example the image may be displayed on a television program and the on air person may verbalize some or all of the provided weather data.

In the method shown in location coordinate information is associated with a user identified location as shown in block . For example if the user has selected a particular point on a displayed map the latitude and longitude of that position may be determined. The altitude may also be determined. As another example if the user has selected a particular city name that appears on a map on the interface a zip code associated with that city may be selected and location coordinate information for the center of that zip code may be associated with the user identified location.

In the method shown in a request for near current weather data comprising the location coordinate information is sent as shown in block . Such a request may be initiated manually or automatically and may have any suitable format including for example any suitable electronic message format.

In the method shown in weather data is selected from near current weather data stored for a plurality of locations as shown in block . The selected weather data is selected in response to receiving the request and using the location coordinate information associated with the user identified location. The weather data stored for a plurality of locations comprises weather data retrieved from one or more of at least two different source weather data systems.

In the method shown in the weather data is provided to the user as shown in block . For example the weather data may be sent in an electronic message to the user.

In the method shown in video is produced by combining captured video images the segment and near production time weather data associated with the segment as shown in block . While the video images are being captured by a video camera the near production time weather data may be retrieved simultaneously from a database of weather data using the location coordinate information associated with the segment. The database of weather data comprises weather data retrieved from one or more of at least two different source weather data systems. The produced video may comprise a single image or series of images providing for the simultaneous display of a captured video image the graphic and the near production time weather data.

Retrieving the near production time weather data may comprise determining that a location for which weather data is stored in the database is the nearest location to a location identified by the location coordinate information. Retrieving the near production time weather data may comprise comparing the location coordinate information with longitude latitude and elevation values of at least one location for which weather data is stored in the database. Such comparison may further comprise attributing greater significance to differences in elevation than to differences in longitude and latitude.

A metric space such as an r tree may be used that comprises a set of elements corresponding to the locations for which weather data is stored in the database. The method may further comprise retrieving the near production time weather data and further comprises comparing distances in the metric space.

In the method shown in video is produced by combining captured video images the segment and near production time weather data associated with the segment as shown in block . As shown in block the near production time weather data is retrieved a in response to a user action b from a database of weather data for a plurality of locations for which weather data is stored after being retrieved from one of at least two different source weather data systems and c using the location coordinate information associated with the segment. The retrieval of the near production time weather data may further comprise determining which location for which data is stored is nearest a location identified by the location coordinate information associated with the segment and or may involve the use of a metric space such as an r tree.

A variety of network configurations including client server configurations may be used to facilitate embodiments of the invention. Certain aspects of the present invention may be implemented using a VizRT data plug in that on a near real time basis can be called by a client to interrogate a server or series of servers for observation data based on 2 dimensional latitude longitude coordinates or 3 dimensional latitude longitude elevation coordinates. One advantage to such interrogation using coordinates is that the client application or person calling the plug in is not constrained to specifying particular weather observation points. Instead one may specify a location by providing any coordinates regardless of whether they exactly correspond to an observation point and the interrogator servers will determine which observation real or virtual point s is are most appropriate and return appropriate data.

As an exemplary configuration a client may comprise a custom dynamic link library that extends a VizRT supplied data extraction application programming interface API . Upon a fetch request the client connects to a remote server for example using a common object request broker architecture CORBA object request and obtains the data and then converts the returned results to something that VizRT can understand. In this example the plug in is not responsible for rendering the data only obtaining it. Instead VizRT is used to render data and stores the necessary data once converted to an appropriate format.

A server component for use with the present exemplary network configuration may comprise separate components. For example a naming service may be used to locate objects based on name such objects representing the working unit of the application onto which function calls are made to retrieve data. Exemplary objects include observation interrogator and forecast interrogator objects. When called each of these interrogator objects uses a spatial index to determine which observation or forecast location is most appropriate for a given coordinate.

Modifications additions and deletions may be made to the embodiments described above and shown in the accompanying figures without departing from the scope or spirit of the present invention. For example while the invention has been discussed in the context of location coordinates images videos maps television VizRT and other concepts and applications other media and uses for the principles of the present invention will be apparent for example in the context of Web pages cellular devices and any other conceivable application where specific point data is used. For example an embodiment of the present invention is a car navigation system that requests local weather or weather just ahead of the driver s path using weather data techniques described herein. In certain embodiments a computer readable medium such as for example random access memory or a computer disk comprises code for carrying out the methods described herein.

