---

title: Ultrahard diamonds and method of making thereof
abstract: A single crystal diamond grown by microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition annealed at pressures in excess of 4.0 GPa and heated to temperature in excess of 1500 degrees C. that has a hardness of greater than 120 GPa. A method for manufacture a hard single crystal diamond includes growing a single crystal diamond and annealing the single crystal diamond at pressures in excess of 4.0 GPa and a temperature in excess of 1500 degrees C. to have a hardness in excess of 120 GPa.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07754180&OS=07754180&RS=07754180
owner: Carnegie Institution of Washington
number: 07754180
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071107
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 401 288 filed on Apr. 11 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 309 477 which is a divisional application of application Ser. No. 10 889 170 filed on Jul. 13 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 115 241 and claims the benefit of Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 486 435 filed on Jul. 14 2003 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with U.S. government support under grant number EAR 0135626 from the National Science Foundation. The U.S. government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to diamonds and more particularly to an ultrahard diamond produced using a Microwave Plasma Chemical Vapor Deposition MPCVD within a deposition chamber.

Large scale production of synthetic diamond has long been an objective of both research and industry. Diamond in addition to its gem properties is the hardest known material has the highest known thermal conductivity and is transparent to a wide variety of electromagnetic radiation. Thus diamond is valuable because of its wide range of applications in a number of industries in addition to its value as a gemstone.

For at least the last twenty years a process of producing small quantities of diamond by chemical vapor deposition CVD has been available. As reported by B. V. Spitsyn et al. in Vapor Growth of Diamond on Diamond and Other Surfaces Journal of Crystal Growth vol. 52 pp. 219 226 the process involves CVD of diamond on a substrate by using a combination of methane or another simple hydrocarbon gas and hydrogen gas at reduced pressures and temperatures of 800 1200 C. The inclusion of hydrogen gas prevents the formation of graphite as the diamond nucleates and grows. Growth rates of up to 1 m hour have been reported with this technique.

Subsequent work for example that of Kamo et al. as reported in Diamond Synthesis from Gas Phase in Microwave Plasma Journal of Crystal Growth vol. 62 pp. 642 644 demonstrated the use of Microwave Plasma Chemical Vapor Deposition MPCVD to produce diamond at pressures of 1 8 Kpa in temperatures of 800 1000 C. with microwave power of 300 700 W at a frequency of 2.45 GHz. A concentration of 1 3 methane gas was used in the process of Kamo et al. Maximum growth rates of 3 m hour have been reported using this MPCVD process.

Natural diamonds have a hardness between 80 120 GPa. Most grown or manufactured diamonds regardless of the process have a hardness of less than 110 GPa. Other than type IIa natural diamonds which have been annealed diamonds have not been reported to have a hardness of greater than 120 GPa.

Accordingly the present invention is directed to a an apparatus and a method for producing diamond that substantially obviates one or more of the problems due to limitations and disadvantages of the related art.

An object of the present invention relates to an apparatus and method for producing diamond in a microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition system having increased hardness.

Another object of the present invention is to enhance the optical characteristics of a single crystal diamond.

Additional features and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be apparent from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. The objectives and other advantages of the invention will be realized and attained by the structure particularly pointed out in the written description and claims hereof as well as the appended drawings.

To achieve these and other advantages and in accordance with the purpose of the present invention as embodied and broadly described a single crystal diamond grown by microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition annealed at pressures in excess of 4.0 GPa and heated to temperature in excess of 1500 degrees C. that has a hardness of greater than 120 GPa.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention A method for manufacture a hard single crystal diamond includes growing a single crystal diamond and annealing the single crystal diamond at pressures in excess of 4.0 GPa and a temperature in excess of 1500 degrees C. to have a hardness in excess of 120 GPa.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further explanation of the invention as claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to the preferred embodiments of the present invention the results of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings.

The microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamond referred to in this application were grown with the apparatus described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 288 499 filed on Nov. 6 2002 entitled Apparatus and Method for Diamond Production which is hereby incorporated by reference. In general a seed diamond is placed in holder that moves the seed diamond grown diamond as the diamond is grown. The inventors of this application are also inventors in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 288 499.

A microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamond having a thickness of greater than 1 millimeter was deposited on type Ib 100 synthetic diamond. In order to enhance the growth rate 50 150 m h and promote smooth 100 face growth single crystal diamonds were grown in an atmosphere of N CH 0.2 5.0 CH H 12 20 120 220 torr total pressure and 900 1500 C. from a microwave induced plasma within a CVD chamber. Raman spectra show a small amount of hydrogenated amorphous carbon a C H and nitrogen containing a C H N a C H giving rise to brown diamond at 1400 C. Photoluminescence PL spectra indicate nitrogen vacancy N V impurities. Single crystal diamonds up to 4.5 mm in thickness have been fabricated at growth rates that are as much as two orders of magnitude higher than conventional polycrystalline CVD growth methods.

The microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamonds were annealed at pressures in excess of 4.0 GPa such as 5 7 GPa and heated to temperature in excess of 1500 degrees C. such as 1800 2900 degrees C. for 1 60 min in a reaction vessel using a belt type or anvil type apparatus. The reaction vessel can be a cell such as that described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 745 623 or U.S. Pat. No. 3 913 280 which are hereby incorporated by reference. Such an annealing treatment reduces or eliminates the color in the microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamond crystals and lightening the tint of the type Ib HPHT synthetic seed crystals. Further the hardness of the annealed microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamond annealed CVD diamond at least 140 GPa is beyond that of annealed or unannealed type Ib HPHT synthetic diamond 90 GPa annealed type Ia natural diamond 100 GPa type IIa natural diamond 110 GPa and annealed type IIa natural diamond 140 GPa and sintered polycrystalline diamond 120 140 GPa .

A single crystal CVD diamond was grown with a N CHratio of 5 at a temperature of approximately 1500 degrees C. on a yellow type Ib HPHT synthetic diamond in a microwave CVD chamber. The dimension of the microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamond was one centimeter square and a little larger than one millimeter in thickness. The color of the microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamond was brown. The brown microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamond on the type Ib HPHT synthetic seed diamond was then placed as a sample in the reaction vessel.

The reaction vessel was placed in a conventional HPHT apparatus. First the pressure was increased to a pressure of 5.0 GPa and then the temperature was brought up to 2200 degrees C. The sample was maintained at these annealing conditions for five minutes and then the temperature was decreased over a period of about one minute to room temperature before the pressure was released.

The sample was removed from the reaction vessel and examined under an optical microscope. The brown microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamond had turned to a light green translucent color and remained firmly bonded to the yellow type Ib HPHT synthetic diamond. The yellow color of the type Ib HPHT synthetic diamond became a lighter yellow or a more translucent yellow. The hardness was about 160 GPa.

Same as example 1 above except the annealing conditions were maintained for 1 hour. The brown microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamond turned to a light green color which was more translucent than the light green color resulting in example 1 and remained firmly bonded to the type Ib HPHT synthetic diamond. The yellow color of the type Ib HPHT synthetic diamond became a lighter yellow or a more translucent yellow. The hardness was about 180 GPa.

A single crystal CVD diamond was grown with a N CHratio of 5 at a temperature of approximately 1450 degrees C. on a yellow type Ib HPHT synthetic diamond in a microwave CVD chamber. The dimension of the microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamond was one centimeter square and a little larger than one millimeter in thick. The color of the microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamond was a light brown or yellow. In other words a yellow or light brown that was not as dark as the brown of the microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamond in example 1 above. The yellow or light brown microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamond on the type Ib HPHT synthetic diamond was then placed as a sample in a reaction vessel. The hardness was greater than 160 GPa.

The reaction vessel was placed in a conventional HPHT apparatus. The pressure was increased to about to a pressure of 5.0 GPa and then the temperature was rapidly brought up to about 2000 degrees C. The sample was maintained at these annealing conditions for five minutes and then the temperature was decreased over a period of about one minute to room temperature before the pressure was released.

The sample was removed from the reaction vessel and examined under an optical microscope. The light brown microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamond had become colorless and remained firmly bonded to the yellow type Ib HPHT synthetic diamond. The yellow color of the type Ib HPHT synthetic diamond also became a lighter yellow or a more translucent yellow.

Same as example 1 except a colorless microwave plasma single crystal CVD grown diamond in an atmosphere of N CH 5 at a temperature of 1200 degree C. was annealed. After annealing the microwave plasma single crystal CVD grown diamond was blue. This blue microwave plasma single crystal CVD grown diamond had a very high toughness of 20 MPa m. The hardness was about 140 GPa.

Same as example 1 except a colorless microwave plasma single crystal CVD grown diamond in an atmosphere of N CH 0.5 at a temperature of 1200 degree C. was annealed. The microwave plasma single crystal CVD grown diamond was still colorless. This colorless microwave plasma single crystal CVD grown diamond had a hardness of 160 GPa and toughness of 10 MPa m.

The indenter applies a point load to the test diamond until an indentation or crack is formed in the test diamond . To prevent elastic deformation of the indenter the loads were varied from 1 to 3 kg on 100 faces in the direction of the test diamonds. Dimensions of the indentation and the cracks associate with the indentation are measured via optical microscopy. is a picture of an indentation made on a microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamond.

By measuring the length D and height h of the indentation the hardness Hof the test diamond can be determined from the following equation 1 1.854 1 P is the maximum load used on the indenter to form an indentation into the test diamond. D is the length of the longest crack formed by the indenter in the test diamond and h is the depth of the indentation into the test diamond as shown in .

The fracture toughness Kof the test diamond can be determined by using the hardness H from equation 1 in the following equation 2 0.016 0.004 2 E is the Young s modulus which is assumed to be 1000 GPa. P is the maximum load used on the indenter to form the indentation into the test diamond. The term d is the average length of the indentation cavity in the test diamond as shown in such that d d d 2. The term c is the average length of the radial cracks in the test diamond as shown in such the c c c 2.

Because of the uncertainties in determining hardness identical measurements were also performed on other diamonds. The measurements on other diamonds were found to be in agreement with published data on the other diamonds. The Vickers hardness tests were done on the 100 faces of the various types of diamonds in the 100 direction.

The indented surfaces of the annealed microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamonds as viewed by optical microscopy clearly differ from those of other softer diamonds. The annealed microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamond exhibits square crack patterns along or no cross like cracked lines along and a water print like deformation mark was produced on the surface of the annealed microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamond by the pyramidal Vickers indenter. In contrast an annealed type IIa natural diamond has less square crack patterns along 110 and 111 but still exhibits the cross like 100 cracks of softer diamonds. Such results indicate that annealed microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamond is harder than the indenter and the pressure due to plastic deformation of the indenter causes slippage of the softer 111 faces.

The Vickers indenters typically cracked after 15 measurements on unannealed microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamonds and type Ib natural diamonds. Further The Vickers indenters typically cracked after 5 measurements on annealed type IIa natural diamonds annealed type Ia natural diamonds and annealed type Ib HPHT synthetic diamonds. However the Vickers indenter cracked after only one or two measurements on the annealed microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamonds. These observations further indicate that the annealed microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamonds are harder than the measured values indicate. Indeed many annealed microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamonds simply damaged the softer indenter. In such instances the indenter left no imprint whatsoever in the surface of the annealed microwave plasma CVD grown single crystal diamonds.

As the present invention may be embodied in several forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof it should also be understood that the above described embodiments are not limited by any of the details of the foregoing description unless otherwise specified but rather should be construed broadly within its spirit and scope as defined in the appended claims and therefore all changes and modifications that fall within the metes and bounds of the claims or equivalence of such metes and bounds are therefore intended to be embraced by the appended claims.

