---

title: G-protein coupled receptor kinase-5 polymorphism
abstract: The present invention is directed to compositions and methods relating to a G-protein coupled receptor kinase-5 polymorphism. The methods include, for example: detecting enhanced desensitization of the beta adrenergic receptor signaling pathway in an individual, assessing partial protection against heart failure progression in an individual, and assessing an individual's response to beta-blocker therapy. The compositions include polynucleotides or fragments thereof of a nucleotide sequence encoding for a G-protein receptor kinase-5 molecule with a thymine at amino acid position 122 and oligonucleotide primers that hybridize thereto.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08530160&OS=08530160&RS=08530160
owner: University of Cincinnati
number: 08530160
owner_city: Cincinnati
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070910
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 843 239 filed Sep. 8 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under NIH grant HL077101 awarded by the National Heart Lung and Blood Institute. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention is directed to compositions and methods relating to a G protein coupled receptor kinase 5 polymorphism.

Heart associated conditions plague many people. In fact nearly 5 million Americans are living with heart failure and 550 000 new cases are diagnosed each year. While new medications are continually being developed there are still many mysteries surrounding why certain people respond better to one medication versus another or why some people develop heart problems earlier than another. As such there is a need for compositions and methods which can help predict a person s response to particular drug therapy and his her risk for developing heart disease at an earlier age.

One embodiment is directed to a method for detecting enhanced desensitization of the beta adrenergic receptor signaling pathway in an individual. The method includes obtaining a sample comprising a polynucleotide encoding a G protein coupled receptor kinase 5 molecule or a fragment of the polynucleotide from the individual and determining if the polynucleotide or fragment contains a polymorphic site which results in a leucine at amino acid position 41 wherein the presence of leucine at the polymorphic site indicates an enhanced desensitization of the beta adrenergic receptor signaling pathway.

Another embodiment is directed to a method for assessing partial protection against heart failure progression in an individual. The method includes obtaining a sample comprising a polynucleotide encoding a G protein coupled receptor kinase 5 molecule or a fragment of the polynucleotide from the individual and determining if the polynucleotide or fragment contains a polymorphic site which results in a leucine at amino acid position 41 wherein the presence of leucine at the polymorphic site indicates partial protection against heart failure progression in the individual.

A third embodiment is directed to a method of assessing an individual s response to beta blocker therapy. The method includes obtaining a sample comprising a polynucleotide encoding a G protein coupled receptor kinase 5 molecule or a fragment of the polynucleotide from the individual and determining if the polynucleotide or fragment contains a polymorphic site which results in a leucine at amino acid position 41 wherein the presence of leucine at the polymorphic site indicates a reduced responsiveness to beta blocker therapy.

An additional embodiment is directed to a polynucleotide or fragment thereof of a nucleotide sequence encoding a G protein coupled receptor kinase 5 molecule comprising a thymine at nucleotide position 122.

Another embodiment is directed to an oligonucleotide primer that hybridizes to a polynucleotide encoding a G protein coupled receptor kinase 5 or a fragment of the polynucleotide wherein the polynucleotide or fragment thereof comprises a thymine at nucleotide position 122.

Additional embodiments objects and advantages of the invention will become more fully apparent in the detailed description below.

The embodiments set forth in the drawings are illustrative in nature and are not intended to be limiting of the invention defined by the claims. Moreover individual features of the drawings and the invention will be more fully apparent and understood in view of the detailed description.

Heart failure is a common and deadly condition that will affect one in five adults having a one in three chance of dying within a year of diagnosis and a mortality rate of 60 70 in five years. A clinical challenge in managing heart failure is the heterogeneity of this disease. Even among patients with similar forms of heart failure as within families with genetic cardiomyopathies there are variations in clinical characteristics.

Furthermore within the more common non familial cardiomyopathies there are clusters of clinical phenotypes and a high degree of variability in outcome despite similar presentations. These observations have led to the notion that common polymorphisms of genes that regulate cardiac contractility especially those involved in the hemodynamic compromise of heart failure can play important roles in risk prognosis and response to treatment. Of particular interest has been the potential for pharmacogenomic effects to modify the therapeutic response to pharmacological adrenergic receptor AR antagonism i.e. blockade in heart failure which in clinical trials has shown group mean effects of mortality reduction but a high degree of individual variability.

Postulated mechanisms for the benefits of blockade in heart failure include protecting the failing heart from toxic effects of circulating catecholamines and partially resensitizing myocardial adrenergic receptors that have been desensitized. Densensitization is the time dependent loss of receptor responsiveness to agonist and is normally a feedback mechanism that protects cells from unregulated over stimulation. Mechanistically activated receptors are phosphorylated by G protein coupled receptor kinases GRKs which uncouple receptors from their G protein effectors densensitization and participate in the net loss of receptors downregulation . Indeed cardiac and AR are marketedly desensitized and or downregulated in human heart failure attributable to high levels of circulating catecholamines. Intriguingly myocardial GRK activity is increased in human heart failure and reversing GRK effects is thus a proposed heart failure treatment.

It was therefore believed that functionally significant genetic polymorphisms of myocardial GRKs that target AR impact cardiac responsiveness to catecholamines and or the therapeutic response to blockade in heart failure. A nonsynonymous polymorphism of GRK5 that changes the amino acid at position 41 from glutamine Q the most common allele to leucine L was discovered GRK5 L41 . The change resulted from a polymorphism at nucleotide position 122 where an adenine was changed to a thymine. The change to leucine at amino acid position 41 shows a gain of function for the kinase resulting in diminished AR signaling and conferring protection against early death in human heart failure to a similar extent as blockade.

In the case control study explained more fully in the Examples GRK5 L41 was 9 fold more common in blacks vs. whites was not increased in heart failure but was associated with delayed heart failure onset in blacks P 0.001 suggesting a protective effect. In comparison with GRK5Q41 GRK5 L41 enhanced desensitization of AR signaling and cardiac function in CHO cells and transgenic mice revealing a blockage like attenuation of AR pathways. In the prospective study GRK5 Q41 patients were receiving blockers. This degree of protection was similar to GRK L41 patients not receiving blockers RR 0.29 95 CI 0.11 0.78 vs. Q41 blocker nave patients survival in L41 patients was not further improved by blockers. Thus the GRK5 L41 polymorphism is a genetic equivalent to blockade in heart failure and improves outcome and genotyping should identify patients for tailored therapy particularly those intolerant to blocker titration.

As used throughout the specification the term fragment refers to a portion of the nucleotide sequence for G protein coupled receptor kinase 5 SEQ ID NO 1 which incorporates the nucleotide position 122 or a portion of the protein sequence for G protein coupled receptor kinase 5 Accession number NP005299.1 in NCBI GenBank which incorporates amino acid position 41. The protein sequence identified as accession number NP005299.1 in NCBI GenBank database is incorporate herein by reference.

As such one embodiment of the present invention is directed to a method for detecting enhanced desensitization of the beta adrenergic receptor signaling pathway in an individual comprising obtaining a sample comprising a polynucleotide encoding a G protein coupled receptor kinase 5 molecule or a fragment of the polynucleotide from the individual and determining if the polynucleotide or fragment contains a polymorphic site which results in a leucine at amino acid position 41 wherein the presence of leucine at the polymorphic site indicates an enhanced desensitization of the beta adrenergic receptor signaling pathway. The sample is selected from the group consisting of whole blood blood serum blood plasma urine and saliva. In a very specific embodiment the sample is whole blood. In a further embodiment the polymorphic site is located at nucleotide position 122. In another embodiment the polymorphism change at the nucleotide position is from an adenine to a thymine. In an additional embodiment the change at amino acid position 41 is from a glutamine to a leucine. In another embodiment the polynucleotide encoding a G protein coupled receptor kinase 5 molecule or fragment of the polynucleotide comprises SEQ ID NO 1.

Another embodiment includes a method for assessing partial protection against heart failure progression in an individual comprising obtaining a sample comprising a polynucleotide encoding a G protein coupled receptor kinase 5 molecule or a fragment of the polynucleotide from the individual and determining if the polynucleotide or fragment contains a polymorphic site which results in a leucine at amino acid position 41 wherein the presence of leucine at the polymorphic site indicates partial protection against heart failure progression in the individual. In a further embodiment the polymorphic site is located at nucleotide position 122. In another embodiment the polymorphism change at the nucleotide position is from an adenine to a thymine. In an additional embodiment the change at amino acid position 41 is from a glutamine to a leucine. In another embodiment the polynucleotide encoding a G protein coupled receptor kinase 5 molecule or fragment of the polynucleotide comprises SEQ ID NO 1.

An additional embodiment includes a method of assessing an individual s response to beta blocker therapy comprising obtaining a sample comprising a polynucleotide encoding a G protein coupled receptor kinase 5 molecule or a fragment of the polynucleotide from the individual and b determining if the polynucleotide or fragment contains a polymorphic site which results in a leucine at amino acid position 41 wherein the presence of leucine at the polymorphic site indicates a reduced responsiveness to beta blocker therapy. In a further embodiment the polymorphic site is located at nucleotide position 122. In another embodiment the polymorphism change at the nucleotide position is from an adenine to a thymine. In an additional embodiment the change at amino acid position 41 is from a glutamine to a leucine. In another embodiment the polynucleotide encoding a G protein coupled receptor kinase 5 molecule or fragment of the polynucleotide comprises SEQ ID NO 1.

Another embodiment includes a polynucleotide or fragment thereof of a nucleotide sequence encoding a G protein coupled receptor kinase 5 molecule comprising a thymine at nucleotide position 122. In one embodiment the thymine at nucleotide position 122 results in a leucine at amino acid position 41 of the corresponding protein. In another embodiment the polynucleotide or fragment is operable to determine whether an individual with heart failure will have reduced responsiveness to beta blocker therapy. In an additional embodiment the polynucleotide or fragment is operable to determine whether an individual has desensitization of beta adrenergic receptor signaling pathway. In another embodiment the polynucleotide or fragment is operable to determine whether an individual has partial protection against heart failure progression. In a further embodiment the polynucleotide comprises SEQ ID NO 1. In one embodiment the fragment comprises SEQ ID NO 34.

Another embodiment includes an oligonucleotide primer that hybridizes to a polynucleotide encoding a G protein coupled receptor kinase 5 or a fragment thereof wherein the polynucleotide or fragment thereof comprises a thymine at nucleotide position 122. In one embodiment the thymine at nucleotide position 122 results in a leucine at amino acid position 41 of the corresponding protein. In another embodiment the oligonucleotide primer is operable to determine whether an individual with heart failure will have reduced responsiveness to beta blocker therapy. In an additional embodiment the oligonucleotide primer is operable to determine whether an individual has desensitization of beta adrenergic receptor signaling pathway. In another embodiment the oligonucleotide primer is operable to determine whether an individual has partial protection against heart failure progression. In a further embodiment the oligonucleotide primer is selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO 2 SEQ ID NO 3 SEQ ID NO 4 SEQ ID NO 5 SEQ ID NO 6 SEQ ID NO 7 SEQ ID NO 8 SEQ ID NO 9 SEQ ID NO 10 SEQ ID NO 11 SEQ ID NO 12 SEQ ID NO 13 SEQ ID NO 14 SEQ ID NO 15 SEQ ID NO 16 SEQ ID NO 17 SEQ ID NO 18 SEQ ID NO 19 SEQ ID NO 20 SEQ ID NO 21 SEQ ID NO 22 SEQ ID NO 23 SEQ ID NO 24 SEQ ID NO 25 SEQ ID NO 26 SEQ ID NO 27 SEQ ID NO 28 SEQ ID NO 29 SEQ ID NO 30 SEQ ID NO 31 SEQ ID NO 32 SEQ ID NO 33 and combinations thereof. In one embodiment the oligonucleotide primer comprises SEQ ID NO 4. In another embodiment the oligonucleotide primer comprises SEQ ID NO 5.

The polymorphic site noted above can be detected by any appropriate means. In one embodiment the detection of the polymorphic site is by microarray chain terminating sequencing restriction digestion allele specific polymerase reaction single stranded conformational polymorphism analysis genetic bit analysis temperature gradient gel electrophoresis ligase chain reaction and or ligase polymerase genetic bit analysis. In a further embodiment the detection of the polymorphic site is by microarray.

The human study protocols are approved and the subjects provide written informed consent. In the case control study heart failure patients at University Hospital Cincinnati are recruited between Jan. 2 1999 and Dec. 31 2004. Non affected controls from Cincinnati have no cardiac disease or related illness by questionnaire and had normal screening echocardiogram electrocardiogram and blood chemistry analysis. In the prospective study heart failure patients of African descent are recruited from the same institution from May 1 2000 until Dec. 1 2005. Enrollment criteria for both studies are age to 18 to 80 years left ventricular ejection fraction of less than 40 and New York Heart Association heart failure class II IV. blocker or angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitor use are defined as continuous therapy for at least 6 months during any period of study. The decision to treat with blockers and the choice of blocker is entirely at the discretion of the patients physicians. Racial classification as ED white of European descent or AD black of African descent is self reported.

PCR primers for the sixteen GRK5 coding exons are given in Table 1 below . Automated sequencing is performed on an Applied Biosystems ABI 3100 Genetic Analyzer in 96 well format using standard protocols. Multiple sequences are aligned with the reference sequence using SeqScape v2.5 individually verified by one of the investigators.

Transgenic mice expressing human GRK5 Q41 and MI are generated using standard methods. Mouse lines with equivalent cardiac GRK5 Q41 and GRK5 L41 protein expression antibodies from Santa Cruz are propagated for study. Animals are treated in accordance with approved University of Cincinnati Animal Care and Use Committee protocols.

Isoproterenol stimulated accumulation of cAMP in transfected Chinese Hamster Ovary CHO cells is assayed as previously described. In mice M mode echocardiograms cardiac catheterization myocardial gene expression and cardiac histology studies are performed as described. To assess AR responsiveness and desensitization mice are studied by left ventricular catheterization during graded infusions of the nonselective a agonist isoproterenol 0.1 to 3.2 ng g min and 20 ng g min to evoke desensitization. Basal isoproterenol and NaF stimulated myocardial adenylyl cyclase activities are determined as described.

T tests and chi square tests are used to assess significant differences in variables between ethnic groups and between genotype classes within ethnic groups. Allele and genotype frequencies are calculated using standard gene counting techniques. Hardy Weinberg Equilibriums HWE are assessed in each ethnic group separately using a chi square test or Fisher s Exact test if a genotype class had less than 5 individuals. Differences in time from enrollment to death or cardiac transplant between different genotype classes are assessed using Kaplan Meier curves and Log Rank tests. Relative risks are obtained using Cox Proportional Hazards modeling and are calculated after adjustment for age at initial clinic visit blocker usage hypertension status and sex. An alpha level of 0.05 is used to asses the significance of statistical tests. All analyses are carried out using the R Statistical Language. Contractility of isoproterenol infused mouse hearts max dP dt is compared by 1 way ANOVA at each time point and significance is taken at P

The 16 exons of GRK5 are resequenced in 96 individuals to ascertain variations. Four non synonymous variations at nucleic acid positions 122 A T 840 G A 1274 C T and 1624 C G are detected corresponding to amino acid changes from the major allele at residues 41 Q to L 304 R to H 425 T to M and 542 P to A Table 2 below . The GRK5 Q41L variant is the only one with an allele frequency 0.05 and is therefore the focus of further genotyping. There are no non synonymous polymorphisms of the GRK2 coding exons found.

As adrenergic signaling is regulated by GRKs it is critical for minute by minute control of normal cardiac function and can be a pathological mediator in failing hearts. Additionally it is believed that the GRK5 L41 polymorphism influences susceptibility to or progression of heart failure. To test this a cohort of normal individuals and heart failure patients followed at the University of Cincinnati are genotyped Table 3 below . This population is utilized primarily to ascertain disease risk in a case control fashion and to identify trends in disease modification. The unaffected population consists of 533 subjects 470 ED of mean age 49.3 years and 63 AD of mean age 47.8 years with negative histories and physical examinations for heart failure and with normal ECGs and echocardiograms. In this control group the allele frequency of the L41 variant is 0.013 in the ED population and 0.25 in the AD population. By comparison ED heart failure subjects have an L41 allele frequency of 0.024 and AD heart failure subjects have an M1 allele frequency of 0.238 which are not different than the respective allele frequencies in unaffected controls. Among AD heart failure patients in which the polymorphism is more common the heterozygous genotype frequency is 0.351 and the homozygous L41 frequency is 0.062. These allele distributions are consistent with predictions from Hardy Weinberg equilibrium P 0.5 and indicate that the GRK5 L41 polymorphism is not associated with increased risk of developing heart failure.

Within the group of heart failure cases Kaplan Meier methods and Cox Proportional Hazards modeling are undertaken for heart failure progression defined by the end points of death or cardiac transplantation. To avoid spurious associations resulting from the differences in allele frequencies between AD and ED these populations are analyzed separately. The initial comparison examines clinical parameters at study entry of patients homozygous for the wild type Q41 vs. those who are carriers for the L41 polymorphism heterozygotes and homozygotes combined . Baseline characteristics listed in Table 3 are not different between those with or without GRK5 L41 data not shown . In the ED cohort there are no genotype differences in time to development of heart failure P 0.805 or survival time after heart failure development P 0.884 . In contrast while carriers of the L41 allele in the AD cohort also did not have a significant difference in survival after heart failure development compared to Q41 homozygotes P 0.336 they developed heart failure at a significantly later age than Q41 homozygotes P 0.001 . This suggests that the amino acid substitution conferred by the polymorphism provides partial protection against heart failure progression to death or transplantation by altering GRK5 function in this population.

To determine whether the GRK5 Q41L polymorphism alters receptor signaling in a pathway relevant to heart failure its effects on AR desensitization during continuous agonist exposure are investigated using a previously validated in vitro model. CHO cells are co transfected with human AR Arg389 variant which is the most common and either GRK5 Q41 or GRK5 L41. Receptor expression determined by radioligand binding data not shown and GRIP expression as determined by Western blotting are equivalent. Cells are exposed to 10 M isoproterenol for various times and the time course for accumulation of intracellular cAMP quantitated. As shown in GRK5 L4I cells have diminished response compared to GRK Q41 P

The accumulated human and cell data shows that GRK5 L41 a is common in individuals of AD b confers enhanced desensitization of adrenergic receptor signaling and c has a protective effect in heart failure. The GRK5 L41 phenotype of attenuated AR signaling is not unlike that of AR blockade. Accordingly it is believed that the protective effect of GRK5 L41 in AD heart failure patients reflects an interaction with pharmacological 13 blockade and a prospective analysis of AD heart failure patients n 339 comparing outcome as a function of GRK5 Q41L genotype and blocker status is thus performed. This study is restricted to the AD population due to the low frequency of GRK5 L41 in the ED population. As shown in Table 4 below there are no significant differences in clinical characteristics between the genotype stratified groups. Follow up is for a mean of 1.9 years and 82 are treated with blockers 73 carvedilol 22 metoprolol and 5 others . Among homozygous Q41 heart failure patients lack of blocker therapy characteristically diminishes survival P

To formally evaluate the potential interaction effect of blocker usage and Q41L allele a Cox Proportional Hazards model for time to death transplant that included age sex hypertension status blocker usage and Q41L status with and without an interaction term between blocker usage and Q41L status are compared. The model with the interaction term is significantly better than the educed model as measured by a likelihood ratio test P 0.007 and the blocker carrier status interaction term is significant at P 0.009 demonstrating for the death transplant outcome an interaction between GRK5 genotype and blocker usage. Using wild type GRK5 Q41 non blocker users as the reference group blocker treatment in Q41 reduces the risk of death or cardiac transplantation by 83 relative risk of 0.17 95 CI 0.08 to 0.35 Table 5 below . Likewise in L41 patients treated with blockers the risk is decreased by 77 relative risk of 0.23 95 CI 0.11 to 0.49 demonstrating equivalent risk with blockade in those with this GRK5 genotype. Strikingly though even in the absence of blocker treatment risk of death or transplant in L41 patients is decreased by 71 compared with the wild type non treated population relative risk of 0.29 95 CI 0.11 to 0.78 . These data indicate that GRK5 L41 carriers with heart failure are intrinsically protected to an extent that is similar to the protection afforded by blocker treatment. The potential concern that population stratification within the AD cohort is leading to spurious associations is unlikely as AD individuals previously recruited from the same geographic region showed no evidence of population stratification.

GRK5 L41 improves heart failure outcome enhances desensitization of AR in cultured cells and interacts with blockade. Next the physiologic impact of the GRK5 Q41 and L41 variants on the heart in cardiac transgenic mice is determined. Two lines selected for comparable GRK5 expression levels shows no abnormalities of cardiac size histological appearance disease related gene expression or basal contractile function . To determine the effects of the GRK5 variants on AR stimulation of cardiac contractility mice undergo cardiac catheterization to measure left ventricular peak positive dP dt at baseline and in response to isoproterenol . Pre desensitization receptor function is measured with increasing doses of infused isoproterenol up to 3.2 ng g min. Then receptor desensitization is measured during a continuous 20 ng g min isoproterenol infusion over 30 mm. Finally after 10 minute washout periods resensitization is determined with bolus infusion of 3.2 ng g min isoproterenol. Sensitivity to infused isoproterenol is diminished by either GRK5 Q41 or L41 as indicated by the similar rightward shifts in the dose response curves compared with non transgenic mice P 0.02 . In contrast desensitization after 10 minutes of sustained high dose isoproterenol infusion is greater e.g. peak positive dP dt response is lower in GRK5 L41 mice than either GRK5 Q41 mice or non transgenic controls P

As introduced earlier common polymorphisms are proposed as a basis for heart failure risk disease modification and the response to therapy. Given the morbidity mortality and health care costs of heart failure there are substantial efforts underway to find genetic markers or biomarkers to aid in prognosis and management of these patients. Here the gene encoding GRK5 is considered because it is positioned at a critical nodal point in the AR signaling pathway. This candidate is particularly attractive since its role in signaling is to modify receptor number and coupling to G proteins and signaling effectors such as adenylyl cyclase i.e. the important parameters of AR that are perturbed in heart failure. Furthermore GRK5 likely modifies the signaling through both and AR receptor subtypes as well as other critical receptors in heart failure.

The predominant cardiac GRKs are 2 and 5 and the current results suggest that a gain of function GRK5 polymorphism which attenuates AR function in the setting of heart failure is protective. Although relatively fewer studies have been conducted with GRK5 compared with GRK2 they reveal differences in subcellular localization and trafficking receptor specificity fry sensitivity and the ability to transduce non G protein coupled signals. These functional distinctions may explain why the Q to L substitution of GRK5 increases kinase activity and appears to be associated with a survival phenotype in the AD heart failure population. It is recognized that these findings are more likely applicable to the AD population given that the frequency of L41 is 9 fold greater in the AD vs ED population. Regardless any individual who demonstrates the polymorphism will benefit.

The foregoing description of various embodiments and principles of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the inventions to the precise forms disclosed. Many alternatives modifications and variations will be apparent to those skilled the art. Moreover although multiple inventive aspects and principles have been presented these need not be utilized in combination and various combinations of inventive aspects and principles are possible in light of the various embodiments provided above. Accordingly the above description is intended to embrace all possible alternatives modifications aspects combinations principles and variations that have been discussed or suggested herein as well as all others that fall within the principles spirit and scope of the inventions as defined by the claims.

