---

title: Dynamic updateable web toolbar
abstract: A toolbar that persists in a browser window across multiple Web pages during a browsing session is displayed. This toolbar includes multiple toolbar buttons. An updated toolbar is automatically received from a remote toolbar source that is independent of the multiple Web pages, and this updated toolbar includes a change to the toolbar buttons. The toolbar in the browser is replaced, during the browsing session, with this updated toolbar. The toolbar can also include one or more buttons based at least in part on customization information regarding a user of the browser.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08234575&OS=08234575&RS=08234575
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08234575
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071130
---
Use of the Internet and the World Wide Web or simply the Web has become commonplace throughout the world. Typically users of a computing device use a Web browser to access information that is made available via Web pages on the Internet. These Web pages are displayed in the Web browser and the user can navigate to different Web pages to retrieve different information. The Web browser oftentimes includes a toolbar having different user selectable buttons allowing the user to select different information to be displayed and or functions to be performed. These toolbars however are typically installed as programs on the user s computing device sometimes referred to as Web browser plug ins resulting in typically rigid toolbars requiring re installation of the program if changes are to be made to the toolbars.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In accordance with one or more aspects a toolbar that persists in a browser window across multiple Web pages during a browsing session is displayed. This toolbar includes multiple toolbar buttons. An updated toolbar is automatically received from a remote toolbar source that is independent of the multiple Web pages and this updated toolbar includes a change to the toolbar buttons. The toolbar in the browser is replaced during the browsing session with this updated toolbar.

In accordance with one or more aspects toolbar data is received from a remote toolbar source. The toolbar data describes toolbar buttons for a Web toolbar that is to be displayed in a Web browser window during a browsing session. Customization information regarding a user of the device is also received. The toolbar including one or more toolbar buttons based at least in part on both the toolbar data and the customization information is displayed in the Web browser.

A dynamic updateable web toolbar is discussed herein. A toolbar for a Web browser is displayed to the user of a computing device the toolbar being received from a remote toolbar source. The toolbar includes multiple toolbar buttons each of which is typically user selectable and causes additional information to be displayed to the user when selected. The toolbar source can update and modify the toolbar as desired sending a new toolbar with different toolbar buttons and or identifying different sources of information to be displayed when a toolbar button is selected by a user. This updating of the toolbar can be accomplished without requiring the user to re install any toolbar program or plug in. Furthermore the information displayed in the toolbar itself can be customized to particular users to display personally relevant information.

Toolbar display module receives toolbar data from toolbar source which it in turn uses to display dynamic updateable toolbar . The toolbar data received from toolbar source describes the toolbar that is to be displayed as dynamic toolbar . Dynamic toolbar is typically displayed as part of a Web browser of device . Different toolbars can be received from toolbar source at different times. In response to receiving a new toolbar display module changes to display the newly received toolbar. Accordingly toolbar is said to be dynamic. Furthermore the toolbar can be updated based on data received from toolbar source and or to be customized to display personally relevant information as discussed in more detail below.

It should be noted that toolbar source is a remote source. In other words toolbar source is remote from device and is not a component of device . Toolbar source is typically a server accessed by device via the Internet although toolbar source can alternatively be accessed in other manners. Additionally it should be noted that toolbar source is independent of any Web pages or Web page servers. Although the toolbar source may also be a source of Web pages the delivery of the toolbar data is separate from the delivery of any Web pages. It should further be noted that toolbar source can be multiple servers e.g. different servers can provide different toolbar data .

Web browser window is displayed for a particular Web browsing session. A Web browsing session or browsing session refers to the running of a Web browser application that displays Web browser window . When Web browser window is displayed the user can navigate to or surf to one or more different Web pages and then typically closes browser window which stops running the Web browser application. A new browsing session begins each time the user again runs the Web browser application. Toolbar persists in Web browser window across multiple Web pages during a browsing session. Although toolbar persists across multiple Web pages during a browsing session the toolbar buttons displayed in toolbar can change during a browsing session and can even during the display of a Web page as discussed in more detail below.

Also illustrated in display is a cursor . Cursor can take any of a variety of forms and can be moved around display using any of a variety of different cursor control devices. The user can move cursor around window and select a particular portion e.g. one of the buttons in toolbar discussed below using the cursor control device e.g. clicking a mouse button pressing an enter or select button and so forth . A particular portion can also be selected by moving a cursor over the particular portion and leaving the cursor over that particular portion for an amount of time also referred to as hovering . Cursors and cursor control devices are well known to those skilled in the art and thus will not be discussed further.

Selection of a button or other portion of a toolbar being displayed is discussed herein. Such a selection can be made in any of a variety of different manners. In one or more embodiments a selection is made using a cursor and cursor control device as discussed above. Alternatively directional keys or a tab key can be used to cycle through different portions e.g. different buttons in toolbar and the portions can be changed e.g. highlighted to show when they are being selected. An enter key can optionally be used to select a particular one of those portions. Alternatively other selection mechanisms can be used such as function keys particular alphanumeric key sequences and so forth.

Toolbar includes a search box and search button a news button a sports button an autos button a weather button and a stock button . It is to be appreciated that the toolbar buttons illustrated in as well as the buttons illustrated in and discussed below are only examples. The toolbar can be comprised of any set of buttons and that set of buttons can be dynamically changed over time as discussed herein.

Search box is a data entry box via which a user can enter e.g. using a keyboard or other data entry device one or more search terms. After entry of the search term s the user can select button . Selection of button causes the search terms entered in search box to be communicated to a search engine typically on a remote server accessed via the Internet and the results of the search being displayed to the user as a new Web page in browser window .

Each toolbar button included in toolbar can have additional associated content that is displayed when the button is selected by a user. For example news content can be displayed when news button is selected sports content can be displayed when sports button is selected and automotive content can be displayed when autos button is selected. The particular content that is associated with or corresponds to each toolbar button can vary and oftentimes does vary during a browsing session. This information is obtained from one or more content sources as discussed in more detail below.

Some toolbar buttons such as buttons and display headings or information describing the additional content that is available when the button is selected. Other toolbar buttons such as buttons and themselves display additional information to the user automatically and without the user having to select these buttons. For example weather button displays weather information e.g. indicating it is currently rainy and the current temperature is 67 degrees . By way of another example stock button displays information regarding a particular stock e.g. that the stock with the symbol MSFT is currently up 1.50 for the day .

Informational buttons and in addition to displaying information themselves can also have additional associated content that is displayed when the button is selected by a user. For example additional local and or national weather weather related news stories and so forth can be displayed when weather button is selected by a user. By way of another example additional information regarding the stock with the symbol MSFT information regarding other stocks or the broader market and so forth can be displayed when stock button is selected.

The additional content that is displayed when a toolbar button is selected can be displayed in any of a variety of different manners. In one or more embodiments an additional window is displayed whenever a toolbar button is selected. The additional content is displayed within this additional window.

Furthermore the additional content that is displayed when a toolbar button is selected can be any of a variety of different types of content such as one or more of text images video audio and so forth. The amount of content displayed as the additional content can also vary. By way of example assume that the additional content associated with a particular button is multiple news stories. The additional content could be one or more of a summaries of the news stories the full news stories presented in text video etc. links to where the news stories can be accessed and so forth.

Window displays the additional content associated with sports button . In the illustrated example window displays a Super Bowl Comes To Seattle headline and additional text of the news story such as a summary the first few lines of the news story and so forth. This additional text of the news story is displayed as horizontal lines below the Super Bowl Comes To Seattle headline in window . Window also displays an NFL Expands headline and additional text of the news story shown as horizontal lines below the NFL Expands headline in window such as a summary the first few lines of the news story and so forth.

The additional content displayed in window typically includes user selectable links. Upon selection of one of the links in window the Web browser retrieves and displays the Web page identified by the link as Web page . The user is thus able to easily view additional information regarding any of the content displayed in window . For example the user could select the NFL Expands headline or the additional text of the news story displayed in window and in response the Web browser retrieves and displays the entire corresponding news story as Web page .

It should be noted that text is displayed as the additional content in the example window of . It is to be appreciated however that any of a variety of different types of content can be presented via window such as one or more of images video audio and so forth.

Additionally in one or more embodiments multiple categories or collections of content can be presented via an additional window such as window each category or collection being associated with the toolbar button that was selected. These multiple categories or collections can be presented in any of a variety of different manners such as using a series of tabs a series of headers that can be expanded and collapsed and so forth.

As illustrated in window the additional content is organized using different tabs and . Tab includes content related to professional football the NFL tab includes content related to professional baseball MLB and tab includes content related to local high school football. The user can select any of the tabs and in any of a variety of manners analogous to the selection of toolbar buttons discussed above. In the illustrated example tab has been selected so that the additional content related to professional football is displayed in window . If tab were to be selected then additional content related to professional baseball would be displayed in window and if tab were to be selected then additional content related to local high school football would be displayed in window .

Returning to toolbar source identifies a particular toolbar by identifying the particular buttons that are included in the toolbar. Examples of toolbar buttons were discussed above with respect to although it is to be appreciated that these are only examples. Toolbar buttons can be associated with any of a variety of different information such as entertainment news national and or local news international news science technology video games movies books music travel horoscopes personal finance and so forth.

In addition to the toolbar buttons themselves one or more content sources also deliver content to device . Content source s deliver the additional associated content that is displayed when a toolbar button is selected. For example the news content that is displayed when news button of is selected is delivered to device by content source s . Content source s also deliver the information that is displayed on an informational toolbar button. For example the current weather conditions rainy and 67 degrees that are displayed as part of weather button of delivered to device by content source s .

Toolbar source and content source s can deliver data to device in any of a variety of different formats and following any of a variety of different protocols. In one or more embodiments the toolbars are delivered as extensible markup language XML or extensible application markup language XAML data e.g. XML or XAML files . Additionally in one or more embodiments the content delivered by content source s are delivered as RSS feeds also referred to as web feeds or channels. RSS feeds refer to for example Really Simple Syndication feeds RDF Site Summary feeds or Rich Site Summary feeds. Different RSS feeds can be subscribed to by device to obtain the content from source s .

It is to be appreciated that XML XAML and RSS feeds are only examples of formats and or protocols that can be used to deliver toolbars by toolbar source and or content by content source s . Any of a variety of other formats and or protocols could be used such as any of a variety of public and or proprietary markup language formats any of a variety of other public and or proprietary non markup language formats Atom feeds application programming interface API calls and so forth.

In one or more embodiments toolbar source identifies along with an identification of the toolbar buttons to be displayed in the toolbar the RSS feeds to be subscribed to for the additional content to be displayed when one of those toolbar buttons is selected. Thus toolbar source identifies both the buttons to be displayed in the toolbar and the content source s for the additional content associated with those toolbar buttons.

Thus it can be seen that the toolbar buttons themselves as well as the additional content displayed when a toolbar button is selected can be easily changed during a browsing session and even during display of a particular web page. New data describing a toolbar button and or the additional content to be displayed when the button is selected can be sent to the toolbar display module and the display of the toolbar can be updated to reflect this new data. No re installation of any program or browser plug in need be performed in order for this new data to be displayed to the user. Furthermore the toolbar is changed automatically and this change is driven by the toolbar data received from toolbar source and the additional content received from content source s . The change is automatic the user need not enter any specific request for the change to be made and need not notify toolbar source and or content source s of what changes he or she would like made.

The dynamic updateable web toolbar discussed herein can also be used to display alerts regarding the toolbar buttons. One example of displaying such an alert is displaying an alert when a news story that people may perceive as being important becomes available oftentimes referred to as breaking news . The toolbar can be used to identify such alerts to the user such as by changing the appearance of the toolbar button by displaying a headline describing the alert and so forth. These alerts can be associated with different news stories and or different events specific to a particular toolbar button or alternatively a new button can be created to display the alert. For example the toolbar can be used to alert the user to breaking news via the news button e.g. button of or via creating a new button labeled with the text NEW . By way of another example the toolbar can be used to alert the user to a new high temperature for the day or a change in the weather via the weather button e.g. button of . By way of yet another example the toolbar can be used to alert the user to a new daily high for a stock price e.g. button of .

The way in which the toolbar button is used to identify such an alert to the user can vary. In one or more embodiments the appearance of the toolbar button is changed to identify the alert. This appearance can be a change in color of the button and or text in the button a change in the font size or type of the text in the button a change in a border surrounding the button e.g. changing color changing design changing to a flashing border etc. animation of the image or text in the button and or border of the button and so forth.

In other embodiments information describing the content of the alert is displayed in the toolbar. This information can replace the information in the toolbar button such as replacing the text news in news button of with text of a breaking news headline or with an image from the news event. Alternatively this information can be displayed on the toolbar in addition to the toolbar button. For example the breaking headline news can be displayed in the toolbar along with news button of .

However in the appearance of news button is changed to identify an alert e.g. a breaking news story . In the example of the appearance of news button is changed by altering a border around news button . This alteration of the border is an example. As discussed above the appearance of news button can alternatively be changed in different manners to identify the alert e.g. animation of the button change in color of the button change in the information in the button and so forth . In one or more embodiments selection of news button causes a window to open up analogous to window of in which the breaking news story is displayed. Alternatively when news button identifies an alert selection of news button could cause the Web browser to retrieve and display a Web page including the breaking news story as Web page .

However in information describing the alert is displayed in toolbar . In the example of the alert is a breaking news story regarding a new cure for cancer. The news button is replaced with an alert button including the Cancer Cure headline. Although illustrates the Cancer Cure headline replacing the News text of news button in alternative embodiments the Cancer Cure headline could be separate from the news button . In such alternate embodiments a new toolbar button displaying the text Cancer Cure could be displayed in toolbar .

Returning to dynamic toolbar can optionally be customized to particular users of device . In one or more embodiments this customization is performed by toolbar display module and or toolbar source although in other embodiments this customization can be performed by other components and or modules. This customization allows different toolbar buttons and or additional content displayed when a toolbar button is selected to be different for different users whether different of the same device or users of different devices . The customization allows personally relevant information to be displayed on a user by user basis via the toolbar.

The customization can be performed in any of a variety of different manners. In one or more embodiments the customization is based on customization information such as a current user context past user behavior and or user specified information.

The current context of the user refers to any information regarding the user s current web access. This can include information regarding the Web pages being accessed by the user such as the Web page the user is currently viewing the Web pages the user has viewed during the current browsing session and or during a preceding amount of time e.g. during the last 30 minutes and so forth. This can also include information regarding the user s current location such as can be derived based on the Internet Protocol IP address of device global positioning system GPS coordinates describing the location of device and so forth. This can further include information regarding the current date the current time and so forth.

The current context of the user can be analyzed using any of a variety of different rules and or criteria to determine what toolbar buttons are to be displayed to the user and or what additional content is to be presented to the user when a toolbar button is selected. For example the toolbar can be customized so that a stock button is displayed only when the stock market is open. By way of another example a weather button with the current weather for the user s current location can be displayed. By way of yet another example if the user is currently viewing a Web page for a professional football team then a sports button and or football button can be included in the toolbar.

The user s past behavior can also be used to customize the toolbar. The user s past behavior refers to any information regarding the user s past web accesses. This is similar to the user s context discussed above but instead of referring to a user s current web access the user s past behavior refers to his or her past web accesses. These past web accesses can be for example past web browsing sessions. Information describing the user s web accesses is monitored and maintained for use in subsequent customization. This information can include for example Web pages accessed the type of information included in Web pages accessed e.g. history information personal finance information global news and so forth the duration that particular Web pages were being displayed dates and or times of accesses to Web pages and so forth.

The user s past behavior can be analyzed using any of a variety of different rules and or criteria to determine what toolbar buttons are to be displayed to the user and or what additional content is to be presented to the user when a toolbar button is selected. For example the toolbar can be customized so that an autos button is displayed if the user previously accessed at least a threshold number of Web pages describing cars but customized so that an autos button is not displayed if the user did not previously access at least the threshold number of Web pages describing cars. By way of another example a weather button with the current weather for the user s current location can be displayed only if the user frequently accesses a Web page including a weather forecast. Frequent access can be determined by a threshold number of accesses optionally within a particular amount of time or relative to a total number of Web pages accessed a particular pattern of access e.g. every morning every evening etc. an amount of time the Web page was displayed and so forth. By way of yet another example if the user frequently accesses a Web page for a professional football team then a football button or a button for that particular professional football team can be included in the toolbar or a sports button listing the score of the most recent game that football team played in.

User specified information can also be used to customize the toolbar. The context and behavior information discussed above are obtained primarily by monitoring and or analyzing the user s actions. The user specified information on the other hand is information that is specifically identified by the user. For example the user may set a preference or configuration option indicating his or her desired language his or her location e.g. GPS coordinates zip code etc. his or her favorite sports teams his or her favorite stocks and so forth. This allows the toolbar to be customized to create a more personally relevant toolbar for the user.

For example the toolbar can be customized to include a team button for the user s favorite sports team. By way of another example the toolbar can be customized to include a weather button displaying the current weather for the user s location or for whatever location the user entered . By way of yet another example the toolbar can be customized to include breaking news alerts for national breaking news but not for local breaking news and not for international breaking news .

Initially data describing the toolbar buttons to be included in a toolbar is accessed act . This data can be for example an XML or XAML document as discussed above. In one or more embodiments this data also describes where to obtain e.g. particular RSS feeds the content associated with the toolbar buttons that is displayed when one of the toolbar buttons is selected.

A current toolbar is displayed during a web browsing session act on a device. This current toolbar data includes the toolbar buttons identified in the data accessed in act . At some later point updated toolbar data is automatically received act . The receipt of the updated toolbar data is automatic the user need not enter any specific request for the toolbar to be updated and need not notify toolbar source and or content source s of what changes he or she would like made to the toolbar.

The updated toolbar data describes the new toolbar that is to be displayed on the device. In one or more embodiments this updated toolbar data is a standalone description of a toolbar. This standalone description identifies the toolbar buttons to display in the toolbar without reference to any previous toolbar. Alternatively this updated toolbar data describes changes to make to a previous toolbar e.g. the current toolbar being displayed in act . These changes can be for example an additional button s to display a button s that is no longer to be displayed a change to a button s e.g. to identify an alert a change in RSS feed for the additional content for a button and so forth.

The toolbar is then updated with the new toolbar data act and the updated toolbar is displayed as the current toolbar act . This new current toolbar is then displayed as the current toolbar during the browsing session until new updated toolbar data is received.

It should be noted that process can occur during a single browsing session. In other words the toolbar is automatically updated during the user s web browsing session. The user need not interrupt his or her web browsing to initiate the toolbar update. Rather it is done automatically without requiring user input.

It should also be noted that the toolbars displayed in process can also be customized with personally relevant information. The toolbar data accessed or received in acts and can already incorporate this customization or alternatively the customization can occur after the device receives or accesses the toolbar data. In one or more embodiments the received or accessed toolbar data is the initial toolbar data which is subsequently customized with personally relevant information. The customization can for example identify one or more buttons from the initial toolbar data that are to be removed from or added to the toolbar identify colors and or fonts to use in the toolbar and so forth.

Initially customization information regarding a user of the device displaying the toolbar is received act . This customization information can be for example user context information user behavior information and or user specified information as discussed above. One or more toolbar buttons are identified based on the customization information act . These toolbar buttons are identified for example by using the customization information and any of a variety of different rules and or criteria as discussed above.

The toolbar is then displayed with the toolbar buttons identified in act act . This toolbar continues to be displayed until a change in toolbar buttons is detected act . Once the change in toolbar buttons is detected process returns to receive the customization information to identify new toolbar buttons.

The change in toolbar buttons can be detected in act in any of a variety of manners. In one or more embodiments the current user context is monitored and when a change or a change exceeding a threshold amount occurs then it signifies a change in toolbar buttons. Alternatively a change in toolbar buttons could also be detected in other manners such as received from a remote toolbar source. Additionally it should be noted that the change in toolbar buttons detected in act optionally includes an indication of what changes are to be made to the toolbar. In such situations acts and need not be repeated and the new toolbar can be displayed based on the changes indicated along with the toolbar button change being detected.

Device receives content from one or more content source s and toolbar data from a remote toolbar source analogous to the discussion above. Different content sources can deliver data in different formats some of which are understood by toolbar display module and some of which are not. Data from content source s that is in a format understood by toolbar display module is delivered to toolbar display module . Data from content sources in different formats are delivered to content normalizer . Content normalizer converts the delivered content to a format understood by toolbar display module .

Additionally some of the data received from content source s can include references or links to images or other data. When the received data includes such references or links a content and delivery system identifies these references and links and obtains the referenced or linked to data from their source. The source of such referenced or linked to data is typically identified in the reference or the link but alternatively can be identified in different manners such as being a default source known to system or being stored in a known location. Once obtained the referenced or linked to data is combined with the data received from the content source s and is delivered to toolbar display module .

Device also includes a configuration module . Configuration module identifies the format for the toolbar to be displayed by toolbar display module . This format can include an indication of which toolbar buttons are to be included in the toolbar as indicated by toolbar source . This format can also include any of a variety of customization information which can be obtained from a source local to device and or a source remote from device .

In one or more embodiments where the toolbar is customized at device to display personally relevant information as discussed above this customization can be performed by configuration module . Alternatively the toolbar displayed by toolbar display module can be customized to display personally relevant information by obtaining content from a customized content source . This customized content source maintains identifiers of the customized information that is to be displayed as part of the customized toolbar and delivers this information to toolbar display module . In such embodiments configuration module need not perform any customization of the toolbar to display personally relevant information. For example a customized content source can maintain a record of the location of device and deliver customized information based on that location to device such as local weather content local news content and so forth.

Initially the installation process begins act . As part of the installation process other software previously installed on the device is detected act . This detection can be performed in any of a variety of manners such as requesting identification of the previously installed software from an operating system of the device accessing a known location where a record of the previously installed software is maintained e.g. an operating system registry and so forth.

The detected software is then compared to a software list act and a determination is made as to whether any of the software identified in the software list is installed on the device act . The software identified in the software list can be any of a variety of different software such as an operating system a Web browser a Web browser plug in e.g. another toolbar and so forth. If any software in the list is installed on the device then a record of the modifications to make to the toolbar based on the software in the software list that is installed on the device act . This record can be maintained for example by configuration module of so that the toolbars displayed by the toolbar display module can incorporate these modifications.

The modifications that are made to the toolbar can vary based on the particular software from the software list that is installed on the device. Typically these modifications are modifications to create a more user friendly and or more appealing toolbar. For example if a search button and search data input box are already displayed by another component or module installed on the device that is displayed when the web browser application is run then a search button and search data input box need not be included in the toolbar displayed by the toolbar display module. By way of another example different operating systems on the device may support different fonts so a record of which fonts to use for the toolbar is maintained so that the toolbar display module attempts to display only fonts supported by the operating system of the device.

After the toolbar modifications have been recorded or if no software in the software list has been installed on the device then installation is complete act .

Computing device includes one or more processors or processing units one or more computer readable media which can include one or more memory and or storage components one or more input output I O devices and a bus that allows the various components and devices to communicate with one another. Computer readable media and or I O device s can be included as part of or alternatively may be coupled to computing device . Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. Bus can include wired and or wireless buses.

Memory storage component represents one or more computer storage media. Component can include volatile media such as random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile media such as read only memory ROM Flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and so forth . Component can include fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive etc. as well as removable media e.g. a Flash memory drive a removable hard drive an optical disk and so forth .

The techniques discussed herein can be implemented in software with instructions being executed by processing unit . It is to be appreciated that different instructions can be stored in different components of computing device such as in processing unit in various cache memories of processing unit in other cache memories of device not shown on other computer readable media and so forth. Additionally it is to be appreciated that the location where instructions are stored in computing device can change over time.

One or more input output devices allow a user to enter commands and information to computing device and also allows information to be presented to the user and or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone a scanner and so forth. Examples of output devices include a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer a network card and so forth.

Various techniques may be described herein in the general context of software or program modules. Generally software includes routines programs objects components data structures and so forth that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An implementation of these modules and techniques may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available medium or media that can be accessed by a computing device. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communications media. 

 Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computer.

 Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as carrier wave or other transport mechanism. Communication media also include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

Additionally it should be noted that in one or more embodiments the advertisement controlled Web page customization techniques discussed herein can be implemented in hardware. For example one or more logic circuits application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and so forth can be created and or configured to implement the techniques discussed herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

