---

title: One-time password access to password-protected accounts
abstract: Systems and methods facilitate secure one-time-password access to an account in a remote server from an untrusted client. The system consists of an intermediary component whose salient components are a proxy component, a webserver component, and an encryption/decryption component, and it preserves the characteristics of both the server and client. In a man-in-the-middle fashion, the proxy substitutes a one-time password entered at a login interface with a true password, and forwards it to the remote login server. True passwords are encrypted using a seed associated with user identifiers, and a list of one-time passwords is generated/updated and stored on media or transmitted to an electronic device. Substitution takes place by decrypting the one-time password with the seed used for encryption, ensuring the proxy avoids storing the true password.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08255696&OS=08255696&RS=08255696
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08255696
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070910
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 915 251 entitled SYSTEM TO ALLOW ONE TIME PASSWORD ACCESS TO PASSWORD PROTECTED ACCOUNTS and filed on May 1 2007 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates to management of computing and information systems with emphasis in security of authentication credentials for access to remote servers.

As access to services is pushed online the scope of sensitive information that a user must protect broadens. Among this sensitive information passwords as well as credit card numbers CCNs and social security numbers SSNs are the most prominent examples. Users increasingly find themselves in the position of having to enter sensitive information on untrusted machines with the ensuing risk of compromising that information. By logging in to email accounts bank and brokerage accounts employee benefits sites dating and social networking sites from an untrusted computer users are at risk that a keylogger or other spyware will capture the password and gain unauthorized access. Users who reserve a hotel or rental car using a credit card number risk leaving all the ingredients necessary for credit card fraud on the untrusted computer. In addition many banks use social security numbers as userids and require these numbers for some transactions. Thus these SSNs are particularly sensitive as knowing someone s SSN is a key component of identity theft.

Public or shared computers like those found in internet caf s or kiosks should be assumed untrusted and due to poor security policies risky browsing habits installing executables of both unknown and known origin home computers also can easily be infected with spyware. Key and mouse logging software are also common exploits a malicious individual or entity may install such software and record keyboard and mouse events including passwords entered by an unsuspecting user. In summary any given computer should be assumed untrusted unless a competent and knowledgeable individual has set it up and maintains it.

The combination of an ever increasing number of services that have to be accessed in password protected remote login servers with the increase of security compromised computers results in the need for systems and methods to access those services securely without compromising a user s sensitive information. Existing approaches that address this issue fall essentially into three broad categories. 1 Server based methods of authentication other than passwords. Examples include on screen keyboards two factor authentication and challenge responses systems. These methods have to be adopted by the providers of the services by introducing major changes to the server in order to provide the alternative method to authenticate the users. In addition these methods do not provide means for entering sensitive information like CCNs and SSNs. 2 Password management systems. These systems store the sensitive information on either the client or an in the cloud server. In the latter this server delivers the sensitive information directly to the desired destination server on the user s behalf. Nevertheless storing sensitive information in an in the cloud server introduces a new vulnerability If an attacker gains access to the user s account at this server access to any sensitive information stored in the server is granted. Further a server storing the sensitive information of hundreds or thousands of users can itself become a target for attacks. 3 Existing one time password systems. In such systems instead of a single re usable password being assigned to a user a server issues a number of passwords that the user can employ each at most once e.g. one time password to gain access to the server. Typically the server storing the one time passwords is the same as the server authenticating the user.

The following presents a simplified summary of the specification in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the specification. This summary is not an extensive overview of the specification. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the specification nor delineate the scope of the specification. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the specification in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The subject specification addresses the problem of enabling a user to enter sensitive information on an untrusted computer. In addition the specification shows how a user can enter one time versions of any sensitive information that has to be typed at untrusted computers. Thus the user can have one time password access to any remote login server with no need to i make changes to existing remote login servers or merchant web pages ii or make changes to the browser or install any software applications at the untrusted client computer. In addition the user can generate one time versions of other sensitive information such as credit card numbers or social security numbers without requiring any change from the servers and websites with which the users interacts.

System s and method s described herein are based on a man in the middle approach where an intermediary component via a proxy component is responsible for all transactions between a client and a server. The intermediary component does not know or permanently store sensitive information. The intermediary component relies on encryption of true sensitive information to generate one time information which is used to login in a remote server from an untrusted client such as a computer infected with spyware or running keylogger and screen capture scripts uploaded without risk of compromising the true sensitive information. As an example a password to access a particular service is first encrypted producing a list of one time passwords. Similarly passwords to other services CCNs SSNs and other sensitive information are encrypted and a list of one time information is generated. One time passwords OTPs can be produced by encrypting an original password multiple times with disparate encryption keys for each encryption instance and can then be assigned to a user. Subsequently the OTPs can be erased from the encryption engine server which can keep only the encryption key utilized to generate each encryption instance. The user receives and securely holds those one time information lists for use in untrusted clients. It should be appreciated that a list of one time information allows the user to have replay resistant access to password protected accounts. When login in a remote serve is necessary the one time information e.g. passwords CCNs SSNs is provided to the intermediary component which then decrypts the one time sensitive information typed at the untrusted computer thus producing the true sensitive information e.g. the original password and forwards it to the remote login server. With the system s and method s described herein true sensitive information is neither typed in the clear at the untrusted computer nor displayed nor downloaded to the compromised client environment only an encrypted instance of the true password is typed at the client and that encrypted version cannot be re used in subsequent logins.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the invention. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the invention may be employed and the subject invention is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other objects advantages and novel features of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The present invention is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It may be evident however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the present invention.

As used in this application the terms component system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal .

As used in this application the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Additionally in this application the word password refers to an alphanumeric keyword that allows access to a remote server for the purpose of accessing information or processing a service. Thus in addition to the common interpretation of a computer account password such as those used to access web based email services establish a virtual private network VPN connection or remote connection to a high performance computational platform password is also interpreted as but not limited to credit card numbers CNNs social security numbers SSNs birth dates passport numbers or substantially any other pre defined character sequence.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

Webserver component can comprise a login component and a registration . The latter allows client to generate a set of one time passwords. In a first interaction with OTP component client accesses registration component and provides unique identifiers for the account service a user of client is interested in accessing. Typically login information to the account is sufficient to uniquely identify a user universal resource locator URL or IP internet protocol address of remote login server e.g. server and account userid. As an example userid can be zohnDoe37 hotmail.com and www.hotmail.com can be the URL or SavvyInvestor fidelity.com and www.fidelity.com. In addition user discloses the true password passwd to the account in the remote server e.g. server . It should be appreciated that such disclosure of sensitive credentials must take place in a trusted computer to avoid compromising those credentials. Registration component then assigns the user a randomly chosen seed number k and stores it with use r d and URL of the remote server e.g. server in data store . Seed k can be uniquely assigned to the client identifiers userid and URL of the remote server e.g. k can be a key for the user identifiers. It should be appreciated that k is not a sensitive credential without an encryption algorithm E k s where s is an array of symbols. Registration component conveys k and passwd to encryption decryption component .

Encryption decryption component generates a set of N one time passwords encrypting the true password according to an encryption algorithm E k s . In an aspect such encryption algorithm can be cast as a one to one and onto mapping of symbol arrays onto itself. A valid mapping can be a pseudorandom permutation P k s of symbol arrays based on seed k. Using a set of N seeds or encryption keys given by k k 1 . . . k N 1 N permutations are generated P k passwd P 1 passwd . . . P k N 1 passwd . It is noted that instead of f k k n n 1 2 . . . N 1 substantially any function of k g k that generates a new seed is suitable. Each of these permutations constitutes an encryption instance of the true password passwd and can be assigned to a one time password. It is noted that encryption decryption component has access to the decryption algorithm D k q for encryption E k s where q is an encrypted array of symbols. Thus the true password is recovered from the identity D k E k passwd passwd. It should be appreciated that once encryption decryption component determines an encryption algorithm E k s e.g. a mapping for the true password encrypts it and communicates it to the user both the encrypted passwords and the true password can be disposed. Thus permanent storage e.g. in data store by OTP component of the encrypted and true passwords is not warranted necessary as long as the decryption algorithm D k s is retained. It should be appreciated that the encryption key k alone does not constitute substantially sensitive information as it is only useful when combined with a password encrypted as described supra.

The encryption decryption nature of the generation of true password mitigates attacks on OTP component as obtaining the decryption algorithm alone does not provide any advantages regarding generation of the true password. It is noted nonetheless that vulnerability is highest at the registration stage and when the password is decrypted in login steps see below . In such instances the true password is temporarily stored in data store and manipulated by encryption decryption component . To diminish the opportunities for a successful attack on OTP component with the ensuing compromise of sensitive information temporarily stored credentials are XORed with a client specific salt while in data store . Calls to such data store are executed as stored procedures rather than general queries. In an aspect database connection strings and other important path variables can be loaded from the Data Protection API application programming interface provided by Microsofti Windows . Below handling of the OTP list and possible mappings are discussed.

It should be appreciated that the registration procedure described above involving registration component and encryption decryption component can be carried out for an arbitrary number of remote servers. Each time a new server is to be accessed securely through OTP component a user of a client e.g. client can register it and obtain a list of one time passwords.

Once a list of one time passwords has been generated login component can accessed by a client e.g. client intending to access a remote password protected server e.g. server . The client is requested to provide the registered user identifiers userid and server URL for the server that access to is intended in order to retrieve the associated encryption seed k. Identifiers are stored in the OTP component in e.g. data store in conjunction with the seed k. Then the client is requested to supply a one time password from the list of generated registered passwords. For login instance m the m th instance in the OTP list is employed e.g. E k m passwd is provided. Encryption decryption component decrypts E k m passwd and thus passwd becomes available for submission to the intended remote login server e.g. server . It should be appreciated that since the key employed in the encryption of the true password is directly related to the login instance one time passwords afford client a replay resistant access to password protected accounts without infrastructure changes to the remote server . After decryption the login URL for the remote server is then filled in with the actual userid and one time password E k m passwd or an arbitrary string of characters. See below. It should be noted that keyloggers as well as screen capture scripts are mitigated by this approach. The login process is managed by proxy component as discussed next. It is noted that a user might be prompted to deliver the one time passwords in some alternative order. As an example instead of requesting for the m th OTP on the list for the m th login the proxy might prompt for the n th OTP with n m until all remaining active one time passwords are exhausted.

Proxy component relays communications between client and server . In an aspect to accomplish such relay client establishes proxy component as a proxy server by setting the IP address thereof. It should be appreciated that implementing such a setting does not require privileges beyond those ordinarily available to client e.g. a user interfacing with client does not need administrator privileges to set proxy component s IP address or installation of a custom application or modification of client . In an aspect when client is a web browser such as Internet Explorer or Firefox setting a proxy IP is done in the Connection Setting tab of the options menu. It should also be appreciated that proxy component can be implemented as a reverse proxy and yet no changes are needed to be made to browser setting.

Communication that takes place amongst client and one time password platform link and one time password platform and a server link is termed herein uplink communication or uplink. Similarly downlink communication or downlink refers herein to communication between server and OTP platform link and OTP platform and client . In case of secure uplink and downlink communication e.g. secure socket layer SSL transport socket layer TSL proxy component can act as a certificate authority CA with all certificate information appearing as being issued by the proxy component . In an aspect when client is an internet browser a user of client may get warnings indicating proxy component is the certificate authority CA . Similarly if proxy component is a reverse proxy the user gets CA warnings unless the proxy is trusted in which case no CA warnings are issued. Additional warnings are possible to be received in case proxy component is not a reverse proxy. User can acknowledge the warnings by clicking on a button designed for such purpose e.g. OK button in the warning message environment and then proceed with the session or user can explicitly declare proxy component as a trusted issuer of certificates for client . It should be appreciated that in certain computers such as an internet kiosk computer the user may not have privilege to declare proxy component as a trusted CA.

Additionally proxy component manipulates login information. As discussed above client requests a server login URL and provides a userid such request and the response to it from server flow through proxy component . The requested server login URL contains both userid and password form fields. Proxy component populates these fields before relaying them to client . The userid field is populated with the actual userid identifier that client provided to OTP component at the time of registration and it is stored in data store . In turn the password field is populated with an rogue string of characters or with the one time password corresponding to the login instance according to the generated list of one time passwords. Substitutions are accomplished with scripting commands available in proxy component . It should be appreciated that the password field of the server login URL delivered to client is filled in order to stand scripting checks deployed to prevent submission of a login form with empty password fields. Client or a user interfacing with client submits the server login form. Such request flows through proxy component and on this step the proxy component replaces the value in the password field with the true password obtained through decryption of the one time password submitted at login time. The true password XORed with a client specific salt is retrieved from data store . Replacement of the password is effected by a scripting command available in proxy component which allows editing of requests as they are communicated from client to server . This last intervention of proxy component allows client to access server securely via a one time password. Subsequently passwd XOR client specific salt is deleted from data store ensuring that no permanent record of a true password is kept in the OTP platform . Other than to broker the communication between client and server and maintain if necessary a SSL connection to client and another to server there is no further intervention of proxy component after the login is established. In an aspect a debugging proxy can be used to provided scripting commands necessary for modification of client e.g. client requests and responses of server e.g. server . Exemplary proxies are Fiddler Paros and BurpSuite. Exemplary reverse proxies are Microsoft Internet Security and Acceleration ISA Server and Fastream IQ Reverse Proxy.

It should be appreciated that the functionality of one time password component can be modified to handle i a temporary password with a finite lifetime e.g. the password is valid up to an expiration date time or ii a temporary password valid for a specific number of instances R with R a natural number greater than one . In an aspect the validity of a temporary password can be specified by encryption decryption component which can generate the password. It is noted that substantially any issuer of a temporary password can have privileges to specify the longevity of the temporary password. Then the decryption algorithm can be redesigned so that seed k assigned to remote server and login account identifiers remains unchanged for a number of instances R or for the lifetime of the generated password. It should be appreciated that other modifications can be adopted in order for one time password to handle temporary passwords such other modifications are within the scope of the subject application.

It is noted that when passwords are credit card numbers the mapping of digits employed to generate one time credit card numbers needs to be consistent with credit card numbers syntax. In particular the one time credit card numbers need to satisfy parity check e.g. the last digit of the one time number can be determined according to Luhn s algorithm. A valid check number can allow the one time credit card number to stand validity checks applied by a remote login server e.g. server .

Referring to downloading of a one time password list to media is illustrated. Once a one time password is generated e.g. in a registration state using registration component client can download a list of OTPs to media . In an aspect the typical download is to print the OTPs in which case the media is paper. In another aspect the OTPs can be downloaded to a flash memory drive e.g. memory stick or a memory card or to a CD or DVD. An advantage of this media is that the OTP list can be retrieved in electronic devices such as cell phones cameras MP3 players etc. In yet another aspect the list of OTPs can be downloaded to a flexible smart paper device or a portable flexible display e.g. thin film polymer technology .

A system in which a one time password is transmitted to an electronic courier device is illustrated in . Once a one time password is generated it can be transmitted to portable or stationary courier device that can store it and or transmit it to client . It should be appreciated that transmission of the one time password can be wireless such as in short message service SMS . In an aspect courier device can be an electronic device that uploads the OTP list from media . Exemplary devices can MP3 players cameras key fobs etc. In another aspect a courier device can be a cell phone an MP3 player a pager a portable flexible display with wireless reception a pocket PC etc. An advantage of using system is that client can emancipate from returning to a trusted computer to generate a list of passwords as it would be the case if using a paper as media. To become independent from the trusted computer client can enter an OTP from an untrusted machine to a decryption encryption component e.g. component which decrypts the OTP generates another series of OTPs and sends it to courier device . It should be appreciated that by relying in courier device client needs to disclose a true password to a trusted computer only a first time as the true password employed in such first time allows an encryption decryption component to create an encryption decryption E k s D k q pair which permits generating a true password on demand. Thus client in system can become independent of a trusted environment.

In an aspect OTP generation component can be embodied in a cell phone which can perform the encryption computation of OTP. Such encryption can be actuated with a special key in the phone. Transmission of user identifiers one time passwords and decryption algorithm seed can be accomplished wirelessly from the cell phone to the one time password component . Alternatively or in addition OTPs can be rendered at the phone screen and manually entered at client by a user.

It should be appreciated that client can also be a site or service specific application such as a program that interfaces a user in a bank ATM with the financial institution or the self check in kiosk at airports while no password is required for such check in important personal information e.g. full name date of birth passport number is required in the case of international flights is requested . In such specific site application client can offer an alternative OTP procedure for entering sensitive information. In an aspect the application allows a user interfacing with it to engage a proxy component via entering a proxy IP address and to select which fields should be considered one time information fields e.g. while a user may not care about his middle name he she may be particularly concerned with date of birth last name and passport number. Once a proxy component is established and the one time information fields are determined the sensitive information is treated as described herein in relation to passwords. In the case of information fields a more aggressive encryption involving images and sounds can be employed as long as the client allows such encrypting.

Once the Submit button is clicked the actual login URL is displayed not shown with user name and password fields filled as discussed above. Upon proceeding with login in the actual login URL a decryption component e.g. encryption decryption component generates the true password and a proxy component e.g. proxy component replaces the OTP vlxn4 with the true password ard1 and logins the user.

The system also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform transformations by employing the specification for example. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The data packet may include a cookie and or associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. cookie s and or associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the specification may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

In the example environment for implementing various aspects of the specification includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive may also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the subject specification.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like may also be used in the example operating environment and further that any such media may contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the specification.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is appreciated that the specification can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter may facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are example and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

What has been described above includes examples of the claimed subject matter. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Accordingly the claimed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

