---

title: Power management techniques for a universal serial bus
abstract: Power management techniques for a universal serial bus are described. For example, a mobile computing device may include an interface having a universal serial bus, a host processor to couple to the interface, and a radio module to couple to the interface. The radio module may have a radio processor and a detector, the detector operative to detect temporary block flow from radio signals communicated over wireless shared media, the radio processor to enable the universal serial bus when the detector detects the temporary block flow and disable the universal serial bus when the detector does not detect the temporary block flow for a guard interval. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08359071&OS=08359071&RS=08359071
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08359071
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071031
---
Mobile computing devices such as smart phones may provide various processing capabilities. For example mobile devices may provide personal digital assistant PDA features including word processing spreadsheets synchronization of information e.g. e mail with a desktop computer and so forth.

In addition such devices may have wireless communications capabilities. More particularly mobile devices may employ various communications technologies to provide features such as mobile telephony mobile e mail access web browsing and content e.g. video and radio reception. Exemplary wireless communications technologies include cellular satellite and mobile data networking technologies.

Providing both processing and communications capabilities in a single device produces exceptional power management issues for smart phones particularly as form factors for smart phones continue to decrease. As a result battery life for a smart phone may be substantially shortened. This may force frequent recharging operations thereby impairing the convenience of such devices. Consequently improved power management techniques are desired.

Various embodiments may be generally directed to power management techniques for a mobile computing device such as a smart phone. Some embodiments may be particularly directed to power management techniques for an interface between processing components and communications components of a mobile computing device. An example of an interface may include a universal serial bus USB interface although the embodiments are not limited to this example.

In one embodiment for example a mobile computing device may include a host processor and a radio module each coupled to an interface with a USB. The radio module may include a radio processor and a detector. The detector may be arranged to detect temporary block flow TBF from radio signals communicated over wireless shared media. The radio processor may be arranged to enable the USB when the detector detects the TBF. The radio processor may be further arranged to disable the USB when the detector does not detect the TBF for a guard interval. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Enabling and disabling the USB based on TBF detection may provide several advantages. For example the USB and accompanying USB infrastructure draw a significant amount of power from a power supply e.g. a battery for the mobile computing device. The power supply has limited amounts of power and efficient use of the power supply provides various operational advantages. The USB infrastructure however typically draws power from the power supply regardless of whether there is any information ready to transmit over the USB. This is particularly true with respect to the radio module since the radio module is routinely scanning any radio signals received over the wireless shared media. In particular the radio module may scan for the presence or absence of TBF which are Radio Link Control RLC and or Media Access Control MAC layer signals communicated over a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and General Packet Radio Service GPRS cellular radiotelephone system. Due to the latency involved in waking the USB to transmit GPRS data from the radio processor to the host processor the USB typically remains in an active state or partially active state. This may unnecessarily draw power from the power supply thereby reducing battery life.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design parameters or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include other combinations of elements in alternate arrangements as desired for a given implementation. It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

The apparatus may be implemented as part of a mobile computing device. A mobile computing device may be configured to support or provide cellular voice communication wireless data communication and computing capabilities. The mobile computing device may be implemented as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone sometimes referred to as a smart phone. Examples of smart phones include for example Palm products such as Palm Treo smart phones. Although some embodiments may be described with the mobile computing device implemented as a smart phone by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the mobile computing device may comprise or be implemented as any type of wireless device mobile station or portable computing device with a self contained power source e.g. battery such as a laptop computer ultra laptop computer personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone combination cellular telephone PDA mobile unit subscriber station user terminal portable computer handheld computer palmtop computer wearable computer media player pager messaging device data communication device and so forth. Additional details for a mobile computing device may be described in more detail with reference to .

The host processor may provide general or specific computing capabilities for the apparatus . For example the host processor may perform operations associated with higher layer protocols and applications. For instance the host processor may provide various user applications such as telephony text messaging e mail web browsing word processing video signal display and so forth. In addition the host processor may provide one or more functional utilities that are available to various protocols operations and or applications. Examples of such utilities include operating systems device drivers user interface functionality and so forth.

The radio module may communicate with remote devices across different types of wireless links. For example the radio module may communicate across wireless links provided by one or more cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems third generation 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems and so forth. The radio module or a second radio module may also communicate across data networking links provided by one or more cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EV DV systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and so forth. The embodiments however are not limited to these examples. For instance the radio module may additionally or alternatively communicate across non cellular communications links.

The radio processor may include a detector . The detector may be arranged to monitor radio signals communicated over a wireless shared media such as portions of the radio frequency RF spectrum. More particularly the detector may be arranged to monitor the radio signals for specific information such as TBF for a GPRS system. The presence or absence of TBF in the radio signals may be used to control the USB infrastructure of the apparatus .

The host processor and the radio module may exchange information over the interface . For instance the host processor may send information to the radio module for wireless transmission. Conversely the radio module may send information to the host processor that was received in wireless transmissions. In addition the host processor may exchange information with the radio module regarding their configuration and operation. Examples of such information may include whether the detector detects the presence or absence of TBF from the radio signals .

The interface provides various signal control elements and signal lines for couplings among elements such as the host processor and the radio module . Thus the interface may include for example one or more bus interfaces. Exemplary interfaces include Universal Serial Bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces as well as various computer system bus interfaces. Additionally or alternatively the interface may include one or more point to point connections e.g. parallel interfaces serial interfaces etc. between various element pairings. For example the interface may include a universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART that translates data between parallel and serial interfaces a general purpose input output GPIO that provides a set of IO ports in the form of dedicated general purpose pins which can be configured for either inputs or outputs dedicated data lines dedicated control lines a data network and so forth.

In particular shows the implementation having the host processor the radio processor and signal lines . The signal lines may communicate various exemplary messages signals or control directives between the processors to exchange information. The processors may employ various techniques to exchange information over the signal lines . For example the processors may activate and or detect activated signal lines or deactivate and or detect deactivated signal lines. Such signal lines may be dedicated to particular signals. Alternatively the processors may generate data messages to be transmitted across various connections. Exemplary connections may include a parallel interface a serial interface a bus interface and or a data network.

The signal line may communicate information between the host processor and the radio processor to assist in enabling the USB module for operation. For example the radio processor may send a modem wake USB signal e.g. modem wake USB to the host processor to enable the USB module .

The signal line may communicate information between the host processor and the radio processor to assist in disabling the USB module from operation. For example the radio processor may send a modem sleep USB signal e.g. modem sleep USB to the host processor to disable the USB module .

The signal line may communicate information between the host processor and the radio processor to assist in waking up the radio processor when it enters a lower power state to allow the radio processor to receive information from the host processor over the USB . For example the host processor may send an application wake modem signal e.g. app wake modem to the radio processor to prepare the radio processor to receive information from the host processor .

The signal line may communicate information between the host processor and the radio processor to assist in waking up the host processor when it enters a lower power state to allow the host processor to receive information from the radio processor over the USB . For example the radio processor may send a modem wake application signal e.g. modem wake app to the host processor to prepare the host processor to receive information from the radio processor .

Other signal lines may be used to convey other information between the processors . For example the signal line may communicate timing and status information between the processors . For instance the signal line may communicate timing and status information in the form of clock or synchronization pulses.

In general operation the apparatus may engage in communications across multiple wireless links. As described above however the USB module may consume power regardless of whether the radio module is actually communicating information over the wireless shared media. This power consumption may unnecessarily degrade battery life thereby forcing a premature recharge of the battery which may be inconvenient to the operator.

Embodiments such as apparatus may advantageously reduce or prevent such unnecessary power consumption through the monitoring of its wireless activities. For instance the USB module of the interface may be effectively suspended deactivated or otherwise disabled for information exchange operations when certain information is not detected by the radio module . Conversely the USB module may be effectively resumed activated or otherwise enabled for information exchange operations when certain information is detected by the radio module . This coordination may be realized through the host processor and the radio module exchanging information over the interface . As described above information exchange may be handled by the host processor and the radio processor . The embodiments however are not limited to such implementations and may use various other hardware or software elements as proxy elements to perform the desired information exchange.

The USB module may be controlled by the power management module and or the application USB driver . In the former case the power management module may receive information from the radio module or the application USB driver to generate control directives for the USB module . In the latter case the application USB driver may receive information from the application module to generate control directives for the USB module .

As previously described the detector may be arranged to detect TBF from the radio signals communicated over wireless shared media. The TBF comprises signals communicated by a GPRS cellular radiotelephone system. In GPRS the Radio RLC MAC layer link between a mobile station and the cellular radiotelephone system infrastructure equipment e.g. a base station system serving GPRS support node mobile switching center and so forth is called a TBF. For the radio module to send or receive information over the wireless shared media a TBF must be made available to the radio module . If a TBF is currently active then the radio module may use the TBF thereby reducing delay. If no TBF is established then the radio module and the network exchange signaling messages in an attempt to establish a TBF. The time needed to successfully achieve an active TBF depends on the availability of radio resources and is different for uplink and downlink connections. Once established the TBF will generally remain active for as long as data is made available to the logical link control LLC layer.

The detector may monitor or scan the radio signals for the presence or absence of a TBF. The detector may send a TBF present directive when a TBF is detected to enable the USB between the host processor and the radio processor . The detector may send a TBF absent directive when a TBF is not detected for a guard interval to disable the USB .

The detector uses a guard interval as a predetermined time period to monitor or scan the radio signals to ensure the absence of a TBF from the radio signals . An active TBF may be used to asynchronously communicate Internet Protocol IP packets or datagrams of varying sizes. Without a guard interval the detector may issue a TBF absent directive in error since it may monitor the wireless shared media during a time period between packet arrivals also referred to as interarrival time periods.

In some cases a guard interval may be statically programmed for the detector . For this implementation the guard interval typically remains static and does not change based on real time factors. The predetermined time period may be selected based on such predicted factors or pre measured statistics such as predicted packet size packet interarrival times channel characteristics e.g. signal to noise ratio use characteristics channel data rates and so forth. In such cases it may be desirable to set the guard interval to a time period that is longer than the longest predicted interarrival time typically realized by GPRS systems.

In other cases a guard interval may be dynamically programmed for the detector . For this implementation the guard interval typically remains dynamic and does change based on real time factors. The detector may monitor the wireless communications media to gather real time network statistics such as for packet size packet interarrival times channel characteristics e.g. signal to noise ratio use characteristics channel data rates and so forth. The detector may then modify change or update the guard interval to account for the measured statistics. For example the detector may determine an average packet interarrival time and continuously or periodically update the guard interval to be longer than the average packet interarrival time. In another example the detector may determine an average packet size and continuously or periodically update the guard interval based on the average packet size. This implementation may be advantageous in that it more precisely detects the absence of a TBF and therefore reduces the probability of detection errors and inappropriate disablement of the USB module .

The radio processor may be arranged to enable the USB when the detector detects the TBF. For example the radio processor may receive a TBF present directive from the detector when the TBF is detected. The radio processor may send a modem wake USB signal e.g. modem wake USB when the detector detects the TBF.

The radio processor may be arranged to disable the USB when the detector does not detect the TBF for a guard interval. For example the radio processor may receive a TBF absent directive from the detector when a TBF is not detected for the guard interval. The radio processor may send a modem sleep USB signal e.g. modem sleep USB when the detector does not detect a TBF for the guard interval.

The power management module of the host processor may issue various control directives based on the signals received from the radio processor . For example the power management module may be operative to receive the modem sleep USB signal made active e.g. logic high when the detector does not detect TBF for the guard interval. The power management module may send a disable control directive to disable the USB in response to the activated modem sleep USB signal. In another example the power management module may be operative to receive the modem wake USB signal made active e.g. logic high when the detector detects the TBF. The power management module may send an enable control directive to enable the USB in response to the modem wake USB signal.

Additionally or alternatively the application USB driver may issue various control directives based on signals received from the application module . For example the application module may be executing and need to send application information over the USB . The application module may send a data ready signal to the application USB driver . The application USB driver may receive the data ready signal and send an enable control directive to the HCD in order to enable the USB to allow the application module to send the application information over the USB . Alternatively the application USB driver may send the enable control directive to the power management module which in turn sends the enable control directive to the HCD in order to enable the USB .

The USB module may be selectively disabled based on the control directives issued by the power management module . For example the host controller may be operative to receive the disable control directive to disable the USB . The host controller may have various operational states visible to the HCD via one or more operational registers. A particular set of operational states may vary according to a specific implementation. In one embodiment the USB module may implement the OpenHCI Specification. According to the OpenHCI Specification the host controller may have four operational states including a USB Operational state a USB Reset state a USB Suspend state and a USB Resume state. The USB Suspend state disables list processing operations for the host controller and the HCD . Consequently the host controller and or the HCD may receive the disable control directive to disable the USB and place the host controller and or the HCD in the USB Suspend state.

Additionally or alternatively to switching the host controller and or the HCD in the USB Suspend state the host controller may disable the clock . The clock may be used to generate and provide clock signals to the USB . In some cases placing portions of the USB module in a USB Suspend state may not necessarily affect the clock . Consequently the host controller may be arranged to disable the clock in response to the disable control directive in order to prevent the clock from providing clock signals to the USB . Accordingly the USB module may draw less power from the battery.

Conversely the USB module may be selectively enabled based on the control directives issued by the power management module . For example the host controller may be operative to receive the enable control directive to enable the USB . As previously described the host controller may have various operational states visible to the HCD via one or more operational registers. One operational state is the USB Resume state. The USB Resume state enables list processing operations for the host controller and the HCD . The USB Resume state forces resume signaling on the USB . Consequently the host controller and or the HCD may receive the enable control directive to enable the USB and place the host controller and or the HCD in the USB Resume state. Furthermore the host controller may be arranged to enable the clock in response to the enable control directive in order to allow the clock to provide clock signals to the USB .

Once the USB module has been disabled the radio processor may also enter a lower power state to further conserve energy provided by the power supply. In this case the radio processor may need to be placed in a higher power state when the USB module is enabled in order to receive information from the host processor over the USB . To accomplish this the host processor may send an application wake modem signal e.g. app wake modem to wake the radio processor when the application module has information to send over the USB .

In some cases the power management module may disable the USB module and the host processor may also enter a lower power state to further conserve energy provided by the power supply. In this case the host processor may need to be placed in a higher power state when the USB module is enabled in order to receive information from the radio processor over the USB . To accomplish this the radio processor may send a modem wake application signal e.g. modem wake app to wake the host processor when the radio module has information to send over the USB .

Operations for the above embodiments may be further described with reference to the following figures and accompanying examples. Some of the figures may include a logic flow. Although such figures presented herein may include a particular logic flow it can be appreciated that the logic flow merely provides an example of how the general functionality as described herein can be implemented. Further the given logic flow does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the given logic flow may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In one embodiment the logic flow may detect a TBF from radio signals communicated over wireless shared media at block . For example the detector may monitor the wireless shared media for the radio signals via the transceiver and the antenna in order to detect the presence or absence of a TBF. The detector may detect the absence of a TBF using a static or dynamic guard interval.

In one embodiment the logic flow may enable a USB between a host processor and a radio processor when the TBF is detected at block . For example the detector may send a TBF present directive when a TBF is detected to enable the USB between the host processor and the radio processor . The radio processor may receive the TBF present directive and assert the modem wake USB signal for the signal path . The power management module may detect the modem wake USB signal and send an enable control directive to the HCD using one or more HCI application program interfaces. The HCD may communicate the enable control directive to the host controller to place the host controller in an USB Resume state to resume list processing operations. The host controller may activate the clock to begin sending clocking signals over the USB .

In one embodiment the logic flow may disable the USB when the TBF is not detected for a guard interval at block . For example the detector may send a TBF absent directive when a TBF is not detected for a guard interval to disable the USB . The radio processor may receive the TBF absent directive and assert the modem sleep USB signal for the signal path . The power management module may detect the modem sleep USB signal and send a disable control directive to the HCD using one or more HCI application program interfaces. The HCD may communicate the disable control directive to the host controller to place the host controller in an USB Suspend state to suspend list processing operations. The host controller may deactivate the clock to prevent clocking signals from being sent over the USB .

In various embodiments the elements of may be implemented in hardware software firmware or in any combination thereof. For instance features of the power management module the application module the application USB driver the HCD the detector among others may be implemented with instructions or logic e.g. software that is provided on a storage medium or computer readable medium for execution by one or more processors. For such implementations these software elements may be executed by the host processor and or the radio processor . Alternatively these software elements may be executed by dedicated processors or other processors accessible to the apparatus .

The mobile computing device may be arranged to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems or protocols. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth. The mobile computing device may also utilize different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v1.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electro magnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

The host processor e.g. similar to the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor e.g. similar to the radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although the mobile computing device is shown with a dual processor architecture it may be appreciated that the mobile computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the processors may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. The host processor may also be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth. The keypad may comprise a physical keypad using hard buttons or a virtual keypad using soft buttons displayed on a display .

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 46 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise a vibrate motor coupled to the host processor . The vibrate motor may be enable or disabled according to the preferences of the user of the mobile computing device . When enabled the vibrate motor may cause the mobile computing device to move or shake in a generic and or patterned fashion in response to a triggering event such as the receipt of a telephone call text message an alarm condition a game condition and so forth. Vibration may occur for a fixed duration and or periodically according to a pulse.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to synchronize information with a local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a Musical Instrument Digital Interface MIDI device a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

The radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. The radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. The radio processor may also be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. The radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth. The radio processor may include a detector . The detector may the same or similar to the detector described with reference to .

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using any of the computer readable media described with reference to the memory . The memory may be typically implemented as flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the radio processor some or all of the memory may be included on the same IC as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communications and or data communications for the wireless network systems or protocols as previously described. In some embodiments the transceiver module may further comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user. In some embodiments the SIM may be implemented as an UMTS universal SIM USIM card or a CDMA removable user identity module RUIM card. The SIM may comprise a SIM application toolkit STK comprising a set of programmed commands for enabling the SIM to perform various functions. In some cases the STK may be arranged to enable the SIM to independently control various aspects of the mobile computing device .

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs . The OS and the application programs may be the same or similar to the application module described with reference to . System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE OS Microsoft Pocket PC OS Microsoft Mobile OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The mobile computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

Examples of application programs may include without limitation messaging applications web browsing applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. Messaging applications may be arranged to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. Examples of messaging applications may include without limitation a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a Push to Talk PTT application a voicemail application a facsimile application a video teleconferencing application an IM application an e mail application an SMS application an MMS application and so forth. It is also to be appreciated that the mobile computing device may implement other types of applications in accordance with the described embodiments.

The host processor may include a power management module . The power management module may the same or similar to the power management module described with reference to .

The mobile computing device may include various databases implemented in the memory . For example the mobile computing device may include a message content database a message log database a contacts database a media database a preferences database and so forth. The message content database may be arranged to store content and attachments e.g. media objects for various types of messages sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The message log may be arranged to track various types of messages which are sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The contacts database may be arranged to store contact records for individuals or entities specified by the user of the mobile computing device . The media database may be arranged to store various types of media content such as image information audio information video information and or other data. The preferences database may be arranged to store various settings such as rules and parameters for controlling the operation of the mobile computing device .

In some cases various embodiments may be implemented as an article of manufacture. The article of manufacture may include a storage medium arranged to store logic and or data for performing various operations of one or more embodiments. Examples of storage media may include without limitation those examples as previously described. In various embodiments for example the article of manufacture may comprise a magnetic disk optical disk flash memory or firmware containing computer program instructions suitable for execution by a general purpose processor or application specific processor. The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

Various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include any of the examples as previously provided for a logic device and further including microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. Section 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

