---

title: Fabricating a monolithic microwave integrated circuit
abstract: A method of fabricating a monolithic microwave integrated circuit (MMIC) with one or more coupling transmission structures protruding from the MMIC includes providing a support substrate, providing a wafer containing a face side, a back side, and a plurality of individual MMICs disposed on the face side, and providing a material for holding the wafer on the support substrate. The method further includes applying the material and placing the wafer on to the support substrate so as the face side is disposed on the support substrate and the material is disposed between the face side and the support substrate. In addition, the method includes performing a disjoin process wherein the plurality of individual MMICs are disjoined from the wafer with the one or more coupling transmission structures protruding from the plurality of individual MMICs, the one or more coupling transmission structures being supported by at least a portion of the face side of the wafer. The method further includes removing the material holding the wafer on the support substrate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07555835&OS=07555835&RS=07555835
owner: HRL Laboratories, LLC
number: 07555835
owner_city: Malibu
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070214
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 856 106 filed on May 28 2004 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 348 864.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. F33615 99 C 1512 funded by the Air Force Research Laboratories and DARPA MTO.

This invention relates to Integrated Circuits with coupling transmission structures that are being used as onboard probes or onboard antennas which eliminate ribbon wire bonding as well as the higher order modes in the waveguide.

Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuits MMIC are implemented with conventional microstrip or grounded coplanar waveguide GCPW circuit elements on thin semiconductor substrates. The thickness of the substrate depends on the frequency of operation. Although at mm wave frequencies wafer measurements of MMICs have shown satisfactory performance MMICs actually suffer significantly in performance once removed from the wafer and packaged using either a ribbon bond approach or a flip chip approach. The ribbon bond and flip chip packaging approaches have a severe and detrimental effect on the performance of the MMICs at mm wave frequencies.

At higher mm wave and sub mm wave frequencies most of the measurement equipment and MMIC modules have waveguide Inputs Outputs I Os . Researchers have demonstrated MMIC modules by coupling MMIC I Os to waveguide using either waveguide transitions or antennas. These transitions can be placed on a semiconductor substrate and ribbon bonded to the MMIC as shown in . However transitions that have been placed on the MMIC semiconductor substrate degrade the MMIC module performance by introducing higher order parasitic modes because MMICs are developed on semiconductor materials like InP SiGe GaAs.

The transitions that have been designed on high performance substrates are ribbon bonded to the MMIC. Unfortunately the assembly approach is complicated MMIC module designs with ribbon bonding suffer from impedance mismatch and produce lower power than expected and at sub millimeter frequencies planar coupling transmission structures need to have narrow width for desired circuit impedances.

Transitions have also been integrated into the MMIC module. See Weinreb S. Faier T. Lai R. Barsky M. Leong Y. C. and Samoska L. High Gain 150 215 Ghz MMIC Amplifier with Integral Waveguide Transitions IEEE Microwave and Guided Wave Letters Vol. 9 No. 7 pp 282 284 July 1999 Weinreb . However this approach still presents problems by introducing higher order modes. See .

The presently disclosed technology addresses the issues of higher order modes parasitic modes impedance mismatches by utilizing an integrated waveguide MMIC module quite unlike Weinreb. The presently disclosed technology eliminates or reduces the higher order modes in the waveguide by etching away extra high resistivity substrate around and or underneath the coupling transmission structures. This allows the development of high performance MMIC modules and subsystems at sub millimeter and higher millimeter wave frequencies.

The present disclosure addresses the issues of higher order modes parasitic modes and impedance mismatches in the waveguide by disclosing an integrated waveguide MMIC. Based on the presently disclosed technology monolithic modular components can be developed to eliminate the need for wirebonding planar coupling transmission structure to waveguide transition probes. The transition probe or antenna depending on the desired function is an integral part of the MMIC chip. The higher order modes in the waveguide can be eliminated or reduced by etching away extra high resistivity substrate around the coupling transmission structure coupling probe or antenna . The reduction of higher order modes allows MMICs to operate at sub millimeter and higher millimeter wave frequencies. Indeed an embodiment discloses integrated MMIC modules for higher millimeter and submillimeter wave system applications.

Pursuant to one embodiment an integrated circuit module is disclosed wherein the integrated circuit module includes integrated coupling transmission structures protruding from the main body of the integrated circuit with extra substrate material removed around and or under the coupling transmission structures.

Integrated Circuits are developed on the substrate material of a wafer with coupling transmission structures extending from the Integrated Circuits as shown by C and D.

This disclosure is not limited to shape and positions of the coupling transmission structures as depicted in . Coupling transmission structures can vary in shape and can extend at different locations from the Integrated Circuit for example see F and G.

In one embodiment the presently disclosed technology improves the performance and reduces higher order modes of the Integrated Circuit module by removing excess semiconductor substrate material around the coupling transmission structures as shown by . In this embodiment the peripheral edge of the semiconductor substrate material closely follows the peripheral edges of the Integrated Circuit and coupling transmission structures . The distance between the peripheral edges of the semiconductor substrate material and the peripheral edges of the Integrated Circuit and coupling transmission structures in is exaggerated for illustration purposes.

The extra parasitic substrate material can be removed using a backside processing shown and described with reference to . represent the cross section of a wafer containing multiple ICs for each of the backside process steps.

In a wafer comprises a substrate and a circuitry layer . The wafer is mounted with the circuitry layer down on to a support substrate and held in place with a wax or other suitable material . The substrate can be a semi insulating semiconductor InP wafer for example. The circuitry layer contains multiple ICs.

In a thinning process is performed on the substrate . The thinning process can be performed for example either by lapping the substrate by etching the substrate wet or dry grinding the substrate or a combination of any of these processes can be used to obtain a desired thickness depending on design requirements.

In a via process is performed on the substrate . The via process can be performed by applying and imaging a via mask to the substrate as shown by creating a via pattern in the via mask as shown by etching via holes through the substrate and removing the via mask as shown by depositing a metallization layer to the backside of the substrate thereby covering via holes with metal as shown by applying and imaging a metal mask as shown by etching the metallization layer and removing the metal mask as shown by

The via mask and metal mask can be but are not limited to a photoresist material. The metallization layer can consist of but is not limited to first depositing Ti followed by Au metals. The metallization layer can be developed by either evaporating or sputtering metal onto substrate and then plating metal to desired thickness. Etching of the metallization layer can be done through wet etch technique. Wet etching can consist of applying potassium iodide to etch Au followed by hydrofluoric acid to etch Ti.

In and a disjoin process is performed on the substrate and circuitry layer . Upon completion of the disjoin process the individual ICs on the wafer will be disjoined from each other. The disjoin process can be performed by applying and imaging an integrated circuit mask to the substrate exposing only the portions of the substrate that are between the individual ICs as shown by etching through the substrate and circuitry layer and removing the integrated circuit mask as shown by

Alternatively the process of disjoining the individual ICs from the wafer can be accomplished by a laser die cutting process instead of masking and etching. The laser cutter is guided where the cutting is to be performed. Upon completion of the laser die cutting process the individual ICs will be disjoined from each other as shown by

Finally removing the wax or other suitable material enables removal of the individual ICs from the support substrate as shown by . The wax can be removed with Tetra chloro ethylene TCE .

In another embodiment the presently disclosed technology improves the performance and reduces higher order modes of the IC by removing excess semiconductor substrate material around and under the coupling transmission structures as shown by . In this embodiment the peripheral edge of the semiconductor substrate material closely follows the peripheral edges of the Integrated Circuit and coupling transmission structures . The distance between the peripheral edges of the semiconductor substrate material and the peripheral edges of the Integrated Circuit and coupling transmission structures in the is exaggerated for illustration purposes.

The extra parasitic substrate material can be removed using a backside processing shown and described with reference to . represent the cross section of a wafer containing multiple ICs for each of the backside process steps.

In a wafer comprises a substrate and a circuitry layer . The wafer is mounted with the circuitry layer down on to a support substrate and held in place with a wax or other suitable material . The substrate can be a semi insulating InP wafer. The circuitry layer contains multiple ICs.

In a thinning process is performed on the substrate . The thinning process can be performed for example either by lapping the substrate by etching the substrate wet or dry grinding the substrate or a combination of any of these processes can be used to obtain a desired thickness depending on design requirements.

In a via process is performed on the substrate . The via process can be performed by applying and imaging a via mask to the substrate as shown by creating a via pattern in the via mask as shown by etching via holes through the substrate and removing the via mask as shown by depositing a metallizafion layer to the backside of the substrate thereby covering via holes with metal as shown by applying and imaging a metal mask as shown by etching the metallizafion layer and removing the metal mask as shown by

The via mask and metal mask can be but are not limited to a photoresist material. The metallization layer can consist of but is not limited to first depositing Ti followed by Au metals. The metallization layer can be developed by either evaporating or sputtering metal onto substrate and then plating metal to desired thickness. Etching of the metallization layer can be done through wet etch technique. Wet etching can consist of applying potassium iodide to etch Au followed by hydrofluoric acid to etch Ti.

In and a coupling transmission structure thinning process is performed on the substrate . Upon completion of the coupling transmission structure thinning process there is less substrate material covering the coupling transmission structures extending from the individual ICs than there is substrate material covering the circuitry of individual ICs. The coupling transmission structure thinning process can be performed by applying and imaging a coupling transmission structure mask to the substrate which mask exposes only the portions of the substrate that cover the coupling transmission structures extending from the individual ICs as shown in followed by etching the substrate to remove a portion of the substrate material covering the coupling transmission structures and removing the coupling transmission Structure mask covering the substrate as shown by

Alternatively the coupling transmission structure thinning process can be accomplished with a laser ablation process instead of masking and etching. The laser cutter is guided to where the thinning is to be performed. Upon completion of the laser ablation process a portion of the substrate will be removed as shown by

In and a disjoin process is performed on the substrate and circuitry layer . Upon completion of the disjoin process the individual ICs on the wafer will be disjoined from each other. The disjoin process can be performed by applying and imaging an integrated circuit mask to the substrate exposing only the portions of the substrate that are between the individual ICs as shown by and etching through the substrate and circuitry layer and removing the integrated circuit mask as shown by

Alternatively the process of disjoining the individual ICs from the wafer can be accomplished by a laser die cutting process instead of masking and etching. The laser cutter is guided to where the cutting is to be performed. Upon completion of the laser die cutting process the individual ICs will be disjoined from each other as shown by

Finally removing the wax or other suitable material enables removal of the individual ICs from the support substrate as shown by . The wax can be removed with Tetra chloro ethylene TCE .

In another embodiment the presently disclosed technology improves the performance and reduces higher order modes of the IC by including an etch stop layer under the circuitry layer and removing all the excess semiconductor substrate material that is under the portion of the etch stop layer that is under the coupling transmission structures as shown by . The presently disclosed technology is not limited to the etch stop layer being disposed between the circuitry layer and the substrate material . In this embodiment the peripheral edges of the semiconductor substrate material and etch stop layer closely follow the peripheral edges of the circuitry layer and coupling transmission structures . The distances between the peripheral edges of the semiconductor substrate material and etch stop layer and the peripheral edges of the circuitry layer and coupling transmission structures in the are exaggerated for illustration purposes.

The extra parasitic substrate material can be removed using a backside processing shown in . represent the cross section of a wafer containing multiple ICs for each of the backside process steps.

In a wafer comprises a substrate an etch stop layer and a circuitry layer . The wafer is mounted with the circuitry layer down on to a support substrate and held in place with a wax or other suitable material . The substrate can be a semi insulating InP wafer. The circuitry layer contains multiple ICs.

In a thinning process is performed on the substrate . The thinning process can be performed for example either by lapping the substrate by etching the substrate wet or dry grinding the substrate or a combination of any of these processes can be used to obtain a desired thickness depending on design requirements.

In a via process is performed on the substrate . The via process can be performed by applying and imaging a via mask to the substrate as shown by creating a via pattern in the via mask as shown by etching via holes through the substrate and the etch stop layer and removing the via mask as shown by depositing a metallization layer to the backside of the substrate thereby covering via holes with metal as shown by applying and imaging a metal mask as shown by etching the metallization layer and removing the metal mask as shown by

The via mask and metal mask can be but are not limited to a photoresist material. The metallization layer can be formed by but is not limited to first depositing Ti followed by Au metals. The metallization layer can be developed by either evaporating or sputtering metal onto substrate and then plating metal to a desired thickness. Etching of the metallization layer can be done through wet etch technique. Wet etching can consist of applying potassium iodide to etch Au followed by hydrofluoric acid to etch Ti.

In a coupling transmission structure thinning process is performed on the substrate . Upon completion of the coupling transmission structure thinning process there is less substrate material covering a portion of the etch stop layer that is covering the coupling transmission structures extending from the individual ICs than there is substrate material covering the rest of the etch stop layer . The coupling transmission structure thinning process can be performed by applying and imaging a coupling transmission structure mask to the substrate exposing only the portions of the substrate that cover the portion of the etch stop layer that is covering the coupling transmission structures extending from the individual ICs as shown in followed by etching the substrate to remove all the substrate material that is covering the portion of the etch stop layer covering the coupling transmission structures and removing the coupling transmission structure mask covering the substrate as shown by

In and a disjoin process is performed on the substrate the etch stop layer and circuitry layer . Upon completion of the disjoin process the individual ICs on the wafer will be disjoined from each other. The disjoin process can be performed by applying and imaging an integrated circuit mask to the substrate exposing only the portions of the substrate that are between the individual ICs as shown by etching through the substrate the etch stop layer and circuitry layer and removing the integrated circuit mask as shown by

Alternatively the process of disjoining the individual ICs from the wafer can be accomplished by a laser die cutting process instead of masking and etching. The laser cutter is guided to where the cutting is to be performed. Upon completion of the laser die cutting process the individual ICs will be disjoined from each other as shown by

Finally removing the wax or other suitable material enables removal of the individual ICs from the support substrate as shown by . The wax can be removed with Tetra chloro ethylene TCE .

The embodiments described in detail for exemplary purposes are of course subject to many different variations in structure design and application. Since many varying and different embodiments may be made within the scope of the inventive concepts herein taught and since many modifications may be made in the embodiment herein detailed in accordance with the descriptive requirements of the law it is to be understood that the detailed embodiments provided above are to be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

