---

title: Negotiating reinsurance for a risk
abstract: System, methods, and computer program products for facilitating negotiations for reinsurance of a risk. The negotiations for reinsurance of a risk are conducted between a cedent and one to many assumers. An interface is provided for allowing submissions of risk for reinsurance, responses from selected assumers, and replies to the responses as necessary to continue or conclude the negotiation. The interface also allows users to view information exchanged during various stages of the negotiation. Additional functionality including categorizing risk, categorizing reinsurance, required distribution, distribution preferences, and endorsement agreements are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07565302&OS=07565302&RS=07565302
owner: Ereinsure.Com, Inc.
number: 07565302
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071113
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 029 464 filed Dec. 20 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 333 940 entitled Systems and Methods for Negotiating Reinsurance for a Risk which claims the benefit and priority of both U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 257 500 filed Dec. 21 2000 entitled Systems and Methods for Binding a Risk as well as U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 324 784 filed Sep. 25 2001 entitled Method and System for Binding a Risk. The present application also claims the benefit and priority of the foregoing provisional applications which are both incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to negotiating and binding reinsurance of insurance risks. More particularly the present invention relates to systems methods and computer program products for facilitating the negotiation of reinsurance for insurance risks.

The process of transferring a risk from one insurance company to another is referred to as reinsurance. An insurance underwriter or another representative of an insurance company who holds a risk is called a cedent. An intermediary for an insurance company who acquires reinsurance of risks for insurance companies is called a broker. In a reinsurance negotiation a cedent or broker provides information to a reinsurance company underwriter employed by a reinsurance company or a broker representing the reinsurance company. The reinsurance company or underwriter is called an assumer. The assumer will typically review the information and may discuss it with the cedent or broker to further assess the magnitude of the risk.

The parties will negotiate terms under which the assumer will be prepared to assume all or a portion of the risk in exchange for a premium. During the reinsurance negotiation the parties will use analysis of the risk and relevant experience in the field to determine the terms of the reinsurance. The exchange of negotiation information can be facilitated by many methods including email fax transmission courier package postal service by hand telephone or video conference. Various forms might be used to collect the information in a structured format and to indicate typical questions used to facilitate analysis of the potential risk. The information can be presented in many forms including diagrams presentations financial information contracts summaries descriptions photographs and or conversations. Negotiations can be conducted during an abbreviated or extended time period and can involve multiple parties in close or distant geographic proximity to one another.

Due to differences with which different cedents brokers and assumers organize and present reinsurance and risk information there is a lack of conformity in the way negotiations are handled. This leads to negotiation information that is unstructured and difficult to efficiently access and review. Because those involved in the negotiation and placement of reinsurance risks use substantially varied business practices the lack of uniformity of risk information reinsurance information and negotiation information can make accessing and managing the information difficult.

There is an ever present need for reinsurance as a means of spreading risk across insurance and reinsurance companies and for allowing reinsurance products to be made available in a form that cedents and assumers find useful. Accordingly there is a need for facilitating the sharing of information between a cedent a broker and an assumer negotiating terms and conditions for the reinsurance managing of information and binding and subsequently endorsing policies for reinsurance.

The present invention allows users to conduct reinsurance negotiations view the stages of the negotiation and the information exchanged during the stages of the negotiation and facilitate the negotiations between cedents brokers and assumers. A cedent or broker makes a submission of a risk for reinsurance to one or more assumers or brokers of reinsurance risk. The submission includes a classification and description of the risk the type of reinsurance requested and a distribution preferences list. The distribution preferences list can include both assumers and brokers to whom the submission should be conveyed and assumers and brokers to whom the submission can be but is not required to be conveyed. Even though the distribution preferences list is used in creating or generating the submission the distribution preferences list is not typically submitted to the assumers and brokers included in the distribution preferences list.

Each assumer or broker that receives a submission from a cedent can provide a response to that submission in accordance with the present invention. Exemplary responses include but are not limited to an offer a counteroffer a quote a plurality of alternative quotes a request for additional information a refusal to quote a refusal of a counteroffer or an acceptance to bind the risk.

The cedent or broker then replies to the response s received from the assumer s or broker s . Exemplary replies include but are not limited to a resubmission of the risk for reinsurance an acceptance of a quote a submission of additional information a request to bind a risk a counteroffer a refusal of a quote or an offer. The cedent broker and one or more assumers continue with responses and replies as necessary to continue or complete the negotiation.

During the negotiation the submission responses and replies are monitored and stored on a host server and or by the cedent broker or assumer. An interface for the cedents assumers and brokers allows them to respectively input submissions responses and replies and to view previous submission responses and replies and the associated information exchanged during each stage of the negotiation.

Additional features and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by the practice of the invention. The features and advantages of the invention may be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. These and other features of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the invention as set forth hereinafter.

The present invention extends to systems methods and computer program products for facilitating the negotiation of reinsurance for insurance risks. The embodiments of the present invention may comprise a special purpose or general purpose computer including various computer hardware as discussed in greater detail below.

With reference now to there is shown an exemplary system in which a negotiation for reinsurance is conducted. The illustrated system includes a cedent assumers optional brokers and and a host system . The cedent is often an insurance underwriter or another representative of an insurance company who holds a risk. The risk is typically a policy or other embodiment of insurance for a risk that the insurance company or other entity has assumed. The cedent negotiates directly or indirectly through one or more brokers with the assumer for reinsurance of the risk.

The assumers are for example a reinsurance company or underwriter who assumes insurance risk. The assumers will engage directly or indirectly with the cedent in negotiations for the reinsurance. The brokers and are optional parties to reinsurance negotiations who represent either the cedent or the assumer in the reinsurance negotiation. While the brokers and can be an optional party to reinsurance negotiations for the sake of simplicity negotiations will be discussed primarily with reference to cedents and assumers . It is understood that negotiations between cedents and assumers can optionally be conducted through one or more broker intermediaries and or .

In the present invention the host system receives and conveys information exchanged as part of the negotiation. The host system thus can monitor information exchanged during various stages of the reinsurance negotiation. By utilizing a host system the present invention enables the users to view information exchanged at various stages of the negotiation and facilitates the negotiation by allowing the users to provide responses and replies to continue or conclude the negotiation. The cedent broker and assumers can convey information to the host system over a network system such as an intranet Internet world wide web or other network system. The host system includes an interface for the cedent assumers and the brokers and such that the negotiations can be accessed and information input as part of a submission response or reply. The interface and the associated information can be accessed from one or more client systems using standard Internet protocols for example. The information can be input utilizing templates associated with the host system s interface.

In the illustrated embodiment an application programming interface API is also included in the host system . The API allows information contained in for example an extensible markup language xml message to be automatically input in the host system in a desired format. By utilizing the API and xml technology or other compatible technology that facilitates data transfer between an application and the host system policy underwriter and reinsurance information can be input into the system without manual input of the same information by a user into templates of the user interface. In other words the API allows an application to interface with the host system . . . . In this example the API is accessible to an application that is associated with the assumer . Any application of the assumer can use the API to access the host system. In a similar manner cedents and brokers also have access to an API that permit their applications to access the host system. In one example this permits a cedent or an assumer to more easily share reinsurance data with other systems. For example an assumer may use the API to retrieve reinsurance data that is provided to an accounting system of the assumer.

With reference to the information included in a submission is initially collected in a series of templates displayed within for example an Internet browser or an API as discussed with reference to . The collected information allows the user to describe the origin of the risk. The risk may be for example a physical property or some risk arising from an activity or legal requirement or in some other form such as a person s life. The submission also describes the risk in terms of a class of insurance and a form of contract that has been provided by an insurance or reinsurance company.

In the embodiment utilizing templates information is also input regarding the type of reinsurance being sought as a means of transferring some or all of this risk from an insurance company to a reinsurance company. In this embodiment certain information is described as unstructured information and some is described as structured data . In most cases the unstructured information is input into fields within the templates that allow text including more than several hundred characters to be input while structured data is input into fields that are formatted to receive numerical input or which are labeled in such a way as to specifically describe the nature of the information that will be input.

In this embodiment the initial information collection that creates a set of information referred to as the risk record or submission is completed in four steps. In this example the steps have been chosen to help the user input policy underwriting and reinsurance information into templates that are reasonably sized relative to the size of a computer screen that might typically be used by the person inputting information and data. Policy information includes but is not limited to the holder of the policy the issuer of the policy the terms of the policy the effective date of the policy and exclusions. Underwriting information includes but is not limited to value of the policy the value being insured the address of the insured risk past claims experience and other relevant risk related information. The reinsurance information includes but is not limited to proposed terms of the reinsurance whether reinsurance follows the fortunes of the original insurance whether reinsurance covers only a subset of the coverage provided by the original insurance period of the reinsurance the amount to be reinsured the rates for the reinsurance and any other reinsurance related information. The data input to the templates is recorded in a database where it is held in tables where a relationship exists between the fields used for input and specific tables within the database. At any time during the process of inputting information the user may cause the information to be saved as a draft record. In addition to providing templates for input there are also steps in this embodiment that display the names and other details of companies or individuals to whom notification might be sent regarding the location of the risk record. This selection is made by the user from a list of companies or individuals and a summary is provided allowing the user to check the selection before notifications are sent.

In addition to information being input to certain templates during the creation of the submission a user can attach files of various types that will also be saved in the database and associated with specific parts of the risk record. In one embodiment an attachment is enabled by a user clicking a button displayed on an html page and indicating that it is for the purpose of attaching a file or fax. In the event that a file is selected as the preferred attachment a new page appears and allows the user to select an electronic file from some directory on either their local or network source. Once such a file has been selected the user can provide a description of the file and the file name and that description will be displayed on the data input or submission. If a fax attachment is preferred the user will be presented with a page containing a unique reference that can be printed and faxed together with additional pages of information. These pages will be received by a fax service and attached to the appropriate risk record as an image file based on the unique reference generated for the fax cover sheet. These attachments will be viewable by the parties to whom the risk record is submitted as well as by the originator.

One aspect of the present invention is the use of notification in addition to notification through information displayed on a unique home page available to each user on the host system. One exemplary embodiment of notification is that an email is created by the present invention according to specific rules and is sent to the email address of the selected user cedent broker or assumer . A URL Universal Resource Locator is included within the body of the email and enables the user to securely link to the present invention using a connection to the Internet and view current information regarding the risk that is the subject of the request for reinsurance.

An important aspect of the present invention is that a user who is representing an insurance company can chose to submit a request for reinsurance to one or more assumers or brokers. Each assumer or other intermediary will be able to view the risk record originally submitted but their responses will create unique threads of negotiation as described below.

According to the present invention a user may view summary information regarding the requests for reinsurance that they have originated or received. The cedent and assumer or broker homepage stored by the host system include information collected into several groups helping the user to understand the status of each transaction and enabling the user to link to more detailed information as necessary. These pages are drawn by the application in such a way that the information displayed is that most recently saved to the database relating to records or submissions that have either been originated by or notified to the user. Changes that have occurred since the last viewing of the information may be displayed in a different color or identified in another way.

With further reference now to there is shown a schematic diagram of a negotiation for reinsurance of a risk between a cedent or broker and at least one assumer. In the negotiation a cedent negotiates with a first assumer a second assumer and a third assumer . further illustrates that the cedent can negotiate with each assumer independently of the other assumers that receive the submission from the cedent. Each assumer may be unaware both of whether the cedent is negotiating with other assumers and of the details of the negotiations with those assumers.

In the first stage of negotiations the cedent makes a submission of a risk for reinsurance to the first assumer the second assumer and the third assumer . The submission for the reinsurance of the risk comprises policy information relating to the initial insurance of the risk provided by the cedent and of information relating to the type of reinsurance being sought. By submitting the policy information and reinsurance information assumers identify the risk for which reinsurance is sought and the type of reinsurance perils the cedent wishes to have assumed. From the submission the assumers determine whether they are interested in entering negotiations for the reinsurance of the risk submitted by the cedent.

In the second stage of negotiations the assumers provide responses to the submission. The first assumer responds with an offer . Similarly the second assumer responds with an offer . The third assumer also responds with an offer . While the schematic illustrates the responses from the first assumer the second assumer and the third assumer as being offers the responses are neither uniform nor limited to offers. Other potential responses include but are not limited to quotes a plurality of alternative quotes requests for additional information refusals to quote or acceptances of a request to bind.

In the third stage of the negotiations the cedent provides a reply to each of the offers received from the assumers. The cedent replies with a counteroffer to the first assumer . Similarly the cedent replies with a counteroffer to the second assumer . The cedent also replies with a counteroffer to the third assumer. The potential replies to the responses from the assumers are not limited to counteroffers. The replies can also include but are not limited to resubmission of the risk for reinsurance an acceptance of a quote additional information a request to bind a risk a counteroffer a refusal of a quote or an offer.

The assumers and provide responses to the counteroffers and from the cedent . The response from the first assumer is a refusal of the counteroffer . In the negotiation the refusal of the counteroffer results in a termination of the negotiation with the first assumer . While the refusal of the counteroffer results in a termination of the negotiation this will not always be the case. The cedent can resubmit the risk for reconsideration by the assumer. The assumer can then determine whether to re enter negotiations for reinsurance of the risk.

The response from the second assumer is a counteroffer . The response from the third assumer is also a counteroffer . The responses from the assumers are not limited to counteroffers or refusal of the counteroffers. The responses can also include but are not limited to new offers requotes a plurality of alternative quotes and requests for additional information.

In the fourth stage of negotiations the cedent replies only to the counteroffers of the second assumer and the third assumer . The reply of the cedent to the second assumer is a counteroffer . The reply of the cedent to the third assumer is a refusal of the counteroffer . The refusal of the counteroffer results in a termination of the negotiation with the third assumer . While the refusal of the counteroffer results in a termination of the negotiation with the third assumer this will not always be the case. Upon receiving a refusal of the counteroffer the assumer can respond with a new offer or requote to the cedent . The cedent can then determine whether to re enter or resume negotiations for reinsurance of the risk with the assumer.

In the concluding stage of negotiations the cedent provides a reply to the counteroffer of the second assumer . The reply of the cedent is an acceptance of the counteroffer . The reply of the cedent in the concluding stage of the negotiation is not limited to acceptance of the counteroffer. The potential replies can also include but are not limited to an acceptance of a quote a request to bind the risk a counteroffer or a refusal of a quote. In the illustrated embodiment acceptance of the counteroffer is sufficient to conclude the negotiation. In an alternative embodiment of the present invention once there is an acceptance of the terms the cedent must additionally make a request to bind the risk. The assumer must then accept the request to bind. The acceptance of the request to bind results in a final agreement for reinsurance of a risk.

As will be understood by those skilled in the art the schematic of is intended to illustrate the basic concepts of negotiation of a reinsurance risk and is in no way intended to limit the scope or spirit of the present invention. For example while illustrates three separate negotiations conducted with three assumers any number of negotiations with any number of assumers can be conducted within the scope of the present invention. Additionally while there are illustrated five negotiations stages any number of stages could be conducted to finalize the negotiation. An agreement can also be reached with any number of assumers.

With reference now to there is shown a schematic diagram of an alternative method of negotiating reinsurance of a risk. In the illustrated embodiment the cedent negotiates cooperatively with a first assumer a second assumer and a third assumer to achieve consensus by syndication.

In the first stage of negotiations the insurer makes a submission of a risk for reinsurance to a first assumer a second assumer and a third assumer . In one embodiment of the present invention the assumers and are cognizant of each assumer to whom the submission is made. In an alternative embodiment the submission is conveyed to the assumers and without the assumers being aware of one another.

In the second stage of the negotiation the assumers and provide a response to the submission of the cedent . The response of the first assumer is an offer to the cedent . Similarly the response of the second assumer is an offer to the cedent . The response of the third assumer is also an offer to the cedent . As was discussed with respect to the potential responses to a submission by the cedent are not limited to offers. A plurality of different types and combinations of responses from the assumers are possible.

In the third stage of the negotiation the cedent makes a reply to the first assumer the second assumer and the third assumer . The reply is a counteroffer based on the offer of the third assumer . In using a syndication model as illustrated in one response becomes the basis for the reply given to all assumers. The response that is closest to the terms desired by the cedent is used to formulate a standard reply that is then made to all assumers continuing to participate in the negotiation.

Based on the cedent s counteroffer the assumers provide a response to the cedent . The response of the first assumer is a refusal of the counteroffer . The refusal of the counteroffer terminates the negotiation with the first assumer . The response of the second assumer is a counteroffer . Similarly the response of the third assumer is a counteroffer . As discussed with reference to there can be a plurality of types and combinations of responses to the counteroffer in the negotiation of reinsurance of a risk.

In the fourth and concluding stage of the negotiation the cedent makes a reply to the second assumer and the third assumer . The reply of the cedent is a counteroffer based on the counteroffer of the second assumer. As discussed with reference to the type of reply of the cedent is not limited to a counteroffer and could include a variety of types of replies. Once the reply has been received the second assumer and the third assumer provide a response to the cedent s counteroffer . The response of the second assumer is an acceptance of the counteroffer . The response of the third assumer is also an acceptance of the counteroffer . Multiple acceptances of the counteroffer can be dealt with in different ways. The cedent can decide to submit a request to bind only to one assumer. Alternatively the cedent can request that one or more assumers assume a portion of the risk. Alternatively the cedent can use the acceptance as the basis for further negotiation with both assumers.

With reference now to there is shown a block diagram illustrating the logic of a negotiation for reinsurance of a risk. In the method a cedent creates a submission of a risk for reinsurance in step . The submission of the risk for reinsurance is received in step . After the submission is received the submission is conveyed to the one or more assumers of reinsurance risk in step . Once the submission of the risk has been conveyed a determination of a response type received from an assumer is conducted in step . If the response is a refusal to quote the refusal to quote is conveyed to the cedent in step . After conveying the refusal to quote the determination of whether a resubmission has been received from the cedent is made in step . If a resubmission has been received the resubmission is conveyed to one or more assumers in step . If no resubmission has been received the negotiation is terminated in step .

Returning to the determination of response type conducted in step if the response is a request for more information the request for more information is conveyed to the cedent in step . Once the request for more information is received the determination of whether a resubmission has been received is conducted in step . If a resubmission has been received the resubmission is conveyed to one or more assumers in step . If no resubmission has been received the negotiation is terminated in step .

Again returning to the determination of response type conducted in step if the response is an offer quote the offer quote is conveyed to the cedent in step . Once the offer quote has been conveyed to the user a determination of the type of reply received from the cedent is conducted in step . In the logic diagram of the the response type received from the cedent can be a counteroffer a refusal of the quote offer or an acceptance request to bind. The response types are not limited to counteroffers quotes offers or acceptances requests to bind in the present invention. However to clearly illustrate the logic of reinsurance negotiations these response types are sufficient to demonstrate the steps of reinsurance negotiations. It will be understood that additional response types are possible without departing from the scope or spirit of the present invention.

In the event that the reply from the cedent is a counteroffer the counteroffer is conveyed to the assumer in step . Once the counteroffer is conveyed to the assumer the method returns to a determination of the response types received from the assumer in step and the subsequent steps in the method.

In the event that the reply from the cedent is a refusal of the quote offer the refusal of the quote offer is conveyed to the assumer in step . Once the refusal quote offer has been conveyed to the assumer the determination of whether a response comprising a requote has been received from the assumer is conducted in step . In the event that a requote reoffer has been received the reqoute reoffer is conveyed to the cedent in step .

In the event that the reply from the cedent is an acceptance request to bind the acceptance request to bind is conveyed to the assumer in step . Once the acceptance request to bind is conveyed to the assumer a determination of the response type received from the assumer is executed in step . In the logic diagram of the the reply from the cedent can be a refusal to bind an agreement or a counteroffer. The reply types are not limited to a refusal to bind an agreement or a counteroffer. However to clearly illustrate the logic of reinsurance negotiations these reply types are sufficient to demonstrate the steps of reinsurance negotiations. It will be understood that additional reply types are possible without departing from the scope or spirit of the present invention.

If the reply type is a refusal to bind the refusal to bind is conveyed to the cedent in step . Once the refusal to bind is conveyed to the cedent the negotiation is terminated in step . In an alternative embodiment of the present invention the refusal to bind does not necessarily result in a termination of the negotiation. In the alternative embodiment the cedent can provide a resubmission in an effort to continue the negotiation with the assumer.

If the response type is a counteroffer the counteroffer is conveyed to the cedent in step . Once the counteroffer has been conveyed to the cedent the method returns to the step of determining the reply type received from the cedent in step .

If the response is an agreement the agreement is conveyed to the cedent in step . The agreement can be embodied in a variety of forms including a summary of the agreement a binder a certificate or a policy. Additionally the agreement may be formalized by the parties using a variety of methods including but not limited to digital signatures from one or all parties multiple independent digital signatures iteratively appended to the document from each party one or more actual signatures from a copy of the agreement which is printed and subsequently signed or any combination of the above. Once an agreement has been reached and the formalizations have been conveyed to the parties the negotiation can be concluded in step .

An agreement and conveyance of the formalizations does not necessarily conclude the negotiation. Once an agreement has been reached and the formalizations have been conveyed to the parties an endorsement request for an alteration of the terms agreed upon by the parties during the negotiation can be received in step . Once an endorsement request is received a determination of whether the assumer or cedent sent the endorsement is conducted in step . If the assumer created the endorsement the endorsement request is conveyed to the cedent in step . Once the endorsement request has been conveyed to the cedent the method returns to the step of determining the reply type received from cedent in step . If the cedent created the endorsement the endorsement request is conveyed to the assumer in step . Once the endorsement request has been conveyed to the cedent the method returns to the step of determining the response type received from the assumer in step .

The logic diagram illustrated in illustrates how a negotiation for the reinsurance of a risk is conducted. By allowing the cedent and assumer to iteratively submit responses replies resubmissions and endorsements the present invention provides flexibility in conducting the reinsurance negotiation. By monitoring the submissions responses and replies exchanged during stages of the negotiation the present invention allows users to access information related to the present stage of the negotiation as well as information relating to other stages of the negotiation. Providing an interactive interface to access the information as well as input submissions responses and replies greatly facilitates the negotiation of reinsurance risks in a network architecture.

With reference now to there is shown various conditions associated with a negotiation for reinsurance of a risk. The conditions are divided into risk conditions submission reply conditions response conditions and negotiation conditions Risk conditions illustrate the state of the risk for which reinsurance is being sought before during and after the reinsurance negotiation. Submission reply conditions illustrate various states associated with cedent actions conducted during and after the negotiation of reinsurance. Response conditions illustrate various states associated with assumer actions conducted during and after the negotiation of reinsurance. The negotiation related conditions identify various states of the reinsurance negotiation pending additional action of the cedent or the assumer during the negotiation for reinsurance of a risk.

Risk conditions illustrate the state of the risk for which reinsurance is being sought. Risk conditions comprise a drafted submission a submitted risk a retracted submission a completed placed submission and a deleted submission . A drafted submission is a risk for which a drafted submission has been completed. A submitted risk is a risk that has been submitted for reinsurance. A retracted submission is a risk that has been temporarily retracted from consideration for reinsurance. A completed placed submission is a risk for reinsurance has been acquired and the risk has been bound. A deleted submission is a risk that has permanently been deleted from consideration for reinsurance .

Submission reply conditions illustrate various states associated with cedent actions conducted during and after the negotiation of remsurance. Submission reply conditions compuse a submitted condition a resubmitted condition a counteroffer condition a bound condition a refused condition and a retracted condition . The submitted condition is a submission reply condition when a risk has been submitted for reinsurance. The resubmitted condition is a submission reply condition when a risk has been resubmitted after an initial submission of the risk. The counteroffer condition is a submission reply condition when a cedent makes a counteroffer to an assumer s offer quote or counteroffer. The bound condition is a submission reply condition when a risk is bound subsequent to a negotiation for reinsurance of a risk. The refused condition is a submission reply condition when a risk is refused by an assumer for consideration for reinsurance. The retracted condition is a submission reply condition when a risk is retracted by a cedent for reinsurance consideration.

Response conditions illustrate various states associated with assumer actions conducted during and after the negotiation of reinsurance. The response conditions comprise an information requested condition a quote offer condition a requote condition an expired condition a not taken up condition a bound condition and a retracted condition . The information requested condition is a response condition when additional risk related information has been requested by the assumer. The quote offer condition is a response condition when a quote offer has been given for the assumption of a risk. The requote condition is a response condition when a requote is given subsequent to an earlier quote for assumption of a risk. The expired condition is a response condition when a time contingency placed on a quote or offer has expired. The not taken up condition is a response condition when a quote or offer given by an assumer is not taken up by a cedent. The bound condition is a response condition for a quote or offer that has resulted in the binding of a risk. The retracted condition is a response condition for a quote or offer that is retracted subsequently to being given.

The negotiation related conditions identify various states of the reinsurance negotiation pending additional action by the cedent or the assumer during the negotiation for reinsurance of a risk. The negotiated related conditions comprise a submission needing a response condition a request for information condition a quote offer pending review of a cedent condition a counteroffer pending review of an assumer condition an agreement pending review of cedent condition a not taken up condition an expired condition a refused condition a bound waiting for certificate condition a bound certificate provided condition and a retracted condition .

The submission needing a response condition is a negotiation condition where a submission for reinsurance has been received but no response to the submission has been received. The request for information condition is a negotiation condition where a request for additional information has been received for a posted submission. The quote offer pending review of a cedent condition is a negotiation condition where a quote offer is pending review by the cedent. The counteroffer pending review of an assumer condition is a negotiation condition where a counteroffer has been received but no response to the counteroffer has been received from the assumer. The agreement pending review of cedent condition is a negotiation condition where an agreement between the parties has been reached but the cedent has not submitted a request to bind the risk. The not taken up condition is a negotiation condition where an agreement between the parties has been reached but the cedent has not and will not request that the risk be bound. The expired condition is a negotiation condition where a time contingent given with quote submission or offer has expired. The refused condition is a negotiation condition where a quote offer counteroffer or requote from the assumer or cedent has received a reply or a response of refusal of the quote offer counteroffer or requote. The bound waiting for certificate condition is a negotiation condition where a risk is bound and the cedent is waiting for a certificate from the assumer. The bound certificate provided condition is a negotiation condition where the risk has been bound and the certificate has been provided by the assumer. The retracted condition is a negotiation condition where a quote offer or requote has been retracted from consideration subsequent to being given to a cedent.

A direct relationship exists between the risk conditions submission reply conditions negotiation conditions and response conditions illustrated in . There are many ways to arrive at any given condition. To understand the ways in which different conditions are reached and and the associated explanation of reinsurance negotiations can be utilized. It will also be appreciated that the described conditions are included for illustrative purposes and should not be considered to limit the scope of the present invention. Any type number and combination of conditions can be utilized without departing from the spirit of the present invention.

With reference now to there is shown a submission interface of the present invention. The submission interface allows a user to prepare and post a submission of a risk for reinsurance. The user can be a cedent or a broker who acts as an intermediary between a cedent and an assumer. The submission interface is comprised of fields for inputting risk related information and reinsurance related information. The fields for inputting risk related information include fields and . The fields for inputting reinsurance related information include fields and . There is also shown a submit button and a submission header . The submit button allows a cedent to submit a completed submission to one or more assumers. The submission header provides interactive access to submission administrative information such as submission date submission number or any other information to assist the users or system in processing the submission.

The fields for inputting risk related information comprise an Insurance policy information field and a policy classification field . The insurance policy information field allows the user to input information related to an insurance policy issued by the cedent to an insured. Policy information is useful in the context of reinsurance negotiations due to the fact that the risk to be reinsured is typically an insurance policy issued by the cedent to an insured.

The policy classification field allows users of various levels of sophistication and experience to efficiently and correctly input policy related information in a manner that allows assumers to review information in an organized fashion. The policy classification field comprises a class selector list a policy type selector list and a template selector list . The class selector list provides a listing of policy classifications. By viewing the list the user is able to identify and select the appropriate class of policy from a superset of policy classifications. The policy type selector list provides a subset of policy types within the policy class selected by the user in association with the class selector button . By viewing policy type list the user is able to select a policy type from the subset of policy types.

Once a policy class and type has been identified the user can select a prepared template using the template selector list . The template selector list provides a variety of templates that are configured to allow entry of policy and risk information typically associated with the policy class and type. For example if the user is seeking reinsurance of home flood policy risks the user will first view the class selector list . The user will then be presented with class of risk that can include commercial personal home auto. The user will then select the home classification. The user will then view the policy type selector list which will present the user with a subset of home type risks that can include homeowners flood theft liability or umbrella. The user will select flood policy type. The user will then view the template selector list which presents the user with several templates specially configured to allow users to input information typically associated with home flood policies. By inputting the information into the template the user can provide all the necessary risk information related to the policy.

The fields for inputting reinsurance related information comprise a reinsurance classification and request field a required distribution field and a distribution preferences field . The reinsurance classification and request field allows the users of varying degrees of experience and sophistication to input information needed to identify the type of desired reinsurance and the proposed terms for the reinsurance in an organized and efficient manner. The reinsurance classification and request field comprises a reinsurance selector button a perils selector button and a currency selector button and a proposed terms field . The reinsurance selector button is an interactive link allows the user to identify and select a type of reinsurance. By clicking on the button the user is presented with reinsurance types associated with the policy type previously selected. The user can then identify and select the reinsurance type desired.

The perils selector button is an interactive link that allows users to identify and select the perils associated with the risk for which they are seeking reinsurance. By clicking on the perils selector button the user is presented with a list of perils typically associated with the type of reinsurance previously selected. The user can identify and select the perils for which they are seeking reinsurance or whether the reinsurance will be following form. The perils selector button may also be configured to present the user with a custom information window for inputting additional perils not listed. The currency selector button allows users to input the type of currency in which the risk is to be insured. This allows users to insure risks from various regions of the world in the appropriate currency for the area. The proposed terms field allows the cedent to select the proposed terms for the reinsurance. The proposed terms include the risks to be covered the amount of reinsurance the reinsurance rates and other applicable terms of reinsurance.

The required distribution field allows the cedent and or the broker to identify assumers to whom the submission must be conveyed. This allows the cedent and or the broker and unprecedented level of control over distribution of submission information. For example if a cedent is working with a broker by using the required distribution field the cedent is assured that certain assumers will receive the submission of a risk. Accordingly the cedent is assured that the broker is not extracting agent rents from the reinsurance contract by conveying the submission only to broker preferred providers. This also allows the cedent to ensure that assumers preferred by the cedent have the ability to make an offer for the reinsurance of the risk.

The distribution preference field allows the users to select a list of assumers to whom the submission can be conveyed. The distribution preferences field allows the cedent and or the broker to limit those assumers receiving the submission without requiring that all assumers available will receive the submission. In an alternative embodiment of the present invention the distribution preference field additionally or alternatively allows a user to select those assumers to whom the submission may not be conveyed. Both the required distribution field and the distribution preferences field can be realized in a variety of configurations without departing from the scope or spirit of the present invention. For example fields and can be configured to comprise interactive links to a listing of reinsurance assumers. Alternatively the fields can be configured to allow custom input of assumers and assumer information. Additionally the fields configured to comprise both interactive listings and custom input. By utilizing both the required distribution field and distribution preferences field the present invention allows the cedent and or the broker unprecedented control over those assumers who will receive the submission for reinsurance of a risk and have the opportunity to provide a response to the submission.

With reference now to there is shown a negotiation interface of the present invention that is used for facilitating a negotiation. The illustrated embodiment of the negotiation interface is a cedent homepage. Accordingly the fields of the negotiation interface are tailored to assist the cedent and or broker in viewing negotiation information and allowing the user to continue or conclude the negotiation. It will be appreciated that the negotiation interface can also be configured to comprise an assumer homepage that is tailored to assist the assumer in viewing negotiation information and allowing the assumer to continue or conclude the negotiation. For example the assumer homepage can include fields for providing responses to submissions and replies received from one or more cedents with whom the assumer is negotiating. Additionally the assumer homepage can include fields for monitoring various stages of each negotiation for reinsurance of a risk.

The quotes to review field provides cedents and brokers access to quote offers and other related assumer responses. By providing access to quotes and offers the quotes review field allows cedents and brokers to quickly identify offers and quotes that have been received but have not been reviewed by the cedent or broker. Accordingly the user can quickly and efficiently identify new quotes received for submissions previously posted.

The endorsements field provides cedents and brokers access to endorsements received from the assumer that are in negotiation by the cedent or broker. As previously discussed an endorsement is a request for an alteration of the terms agreed upon by the parties during the negotiation. By providing access to all endorsements in negotiation the endorsement field allows users to quickly and efficiently identify all endorsements that are part of the ongoing negotiation without having to review each negotiation.

The messages to review field provides access to custom messages sent in the context of reinsurance negotiations. Much like fields and the messages to review field allows users to identify messages sent from assumers without requiring the user to review each negotiation to determine whether n endorsement has been submitted. The submissions summary field provides access to information related to each submission. In one embodiment submissions summary field is an interactive link that provides access to a submission detail interface that has all of the detailed information relating to each submission.

The negotiation review field provides negotiation related information for each submission negotiation. The negotiation review field comprises a first submission summary field and a second submission negotiation summary field . The first submission summary field provides summary negotiation information for a first submission. The first submission summary field includes a negotiation information window . The negotiation information window includes negotiation information . In the illustrated embodiment the negotiation information window is a interactive window and allowing either summary or detailed access to negotiation information . By clicking on the negotiation information window negotiation information is provided to the user in a more detailed format. In one embodiment of the present invention the negotiation information comprises detailed listings of new negotiation information. In the embodiment the detailed listings provide a hyperlink to a negotiation page displaying the actual responses and or replies corresponding to the detailed listings.

The second submission negotiation summary field provides identical functionality to the first negotiation summary field for a second submission negotiation. In one embodiment of the present invention fields and provide access to first and second negotiations for a single submission. In an alternative embodiment fields and provide access to all negotiations for first and second submissions. In the preferred embodiment of the present invention the negotiation review field can be tailored according to the number of submissions and negotiations to provide the most convenient access to all negotiations for each submission for a given cedent. While the illustrated embodiment shows first and second negotiation information windows a variety of numbers and configurations of negotiation information windows are possible within the scope of the present invention. As will be understood by those skilled in the art the fields discussed with reference to the negotiation interface are included for illustrative purposes and are not to be considered limiting in any sense. The negotiation interface can be configured with a variety of fields that can be arranged in a variety of configurations for allowing the user to access negotiation information without departing from the scope or spirit of the present invention.

With reference now to there is shown a negotiation detail interface . The negotiation detail interface facilitates reinsurance negotiations by allowing users to access submissions replies and responses for any stage of the negotiation and by further allowing users to input replies and responses to continue or conclude the negotiation. The negotiation interface comprises windows and for viewing submissions replies and responses and for inputting additional replies and responses. The negotiation interface also comprises buttons and for submitting replies and responses.

The windows of the negotiation interface include a submission information window a comment field a negotiation detail window a negotiation alternates window a conditions window a exclusions window and an attach files window . The submission information window provides interactive access to submission information. The submission window comprises a submission summary window and a submission detail button . The submission summary window provides summary information for identifying key submission information. The submission detail button provides access to detailed submission information such as policy information and reinsurance information. The detailed submission information can be presented to users in a variety of formats such as in a pop up screen or by through a separate submission detail interface.

The negotiation comment field provides access to comments included as part of submissions responses and replies as well as permits users to enter additional comments. By providing access to the comments in a dedicated window the present invention enables users to quickly and efficiently determine whether new comments have been received. The users are thus able to review the comments without having to review the entire negotiation to determine whether any comments have been sent. The negotiation comment field comprises a field for allowing users to view comments and input of new comments and includes a comment history button . The new comment field allows users to view new comments received as part of a response or reply from other parties in the negotiation. The comment field also allows users to input comments in conjunction with a response or reply to be submitted to another party in the negotiation. The comment history button allows users to access all comments provided during various stages of the negotiation. The enter comments field can also be configured to stamp comments with the time date and identification information of the person making comments.

The negotiation detail field allows users to view submissions responses and replies and the corresponding information exchanged during various stages of the negotiation. The negotiation detail field further allows users and to provide a response or reply to continue or conclude the negotiation. The negotiation detail field include a provide input field a last response field a last submission reply field and a view complete history button . The provide input field allows users to input a reply or response to continue or conclude the negotiation. The last response field allows users to view the last response given by an assumer. The last submission reply field allows the users to view the last input received from a cedent whether the input was a submission or a reply. The view complete history button allows the user to view each submission reply or response exchanged during each stage of the negotiation.

The negotiation alternates window allows users to view alternate offers received as part of a response reply or submission. Reinsurance negotiations often include alternative terms by which a risk may be reinsured. Such alternative terms can relate for example to price duration liability limits or any term for which reinsurance negotiation risks are conducted. For example an assumer may offer a higher liability coverage to cover a greater portion of the risk with a high price and an alternative lower liability coverage for a smaller portion of the risk with a lower price in a single offer. The negotiation alternates window allows the users to view both alternatives.

The negotiation alternates window comprises a provide input to alternatives button a last response alternatives button a last submission reply alternative button and a define another layer button . The provide input to alternatives button allows a user to input alternatives as part of a reply or submission to be conveyed to the other party to the negotiation. The last response alternatives button allows the user to view alternatives associated with the last response provided by the assumer. The last submission reply alternatives button allows the users to view the alternatives associated with the last submission reply provided by the cedent. The define another layer button allows users to create additional alternative layers associated with layers presently being input or viewed.

The conditions field allows users to enter custom conditions to be included as part of a response or reply. The exclusions field allows users to enter custom exclusions to be included as part of a response or reply. The attach files field allows users to attach files requested as part of additional information request by an assumer or for any other purpose where attaching a file to a response or a reply might be useful.

Buttons for submitting replies and responses comprise a submit counteroffer button a refuse quote offer button a resubmit submission button and a request to bind acceptance button . The buttons and allow the users to submit a reply or a response with its associated intent. The submit counteroffer button allows a user to submit a counteroffer to the other party to the negotiation. The refuse quote offer button allows the parties to convey a refusal a quote offer counteroffer endorsement or other related reply or response. The resubmit submission button allows a cedent to resubmit a revise or unrevised version of a previous submission to one or more assumers. A request to bind acceptance button allows parties to convey an acceptance of a quote offer counteroffer endorsement or other related reply or response from the other party to the negotiation.

The fields windows buttons and the associated functionality of the negotiation interface discussed with reference to are illustrative and in no sense are to be considered limiting in scope. A variety of fields windows buttons and associated functionality are possible without departing from the scope or spirit of the present invention. For example the negotiation interface can include functionality requiring the cedent to take action with respect to a group of responses before allowing action to be taken with a given response i.e. requiring a cedent to decline all outstanding offers before binding a risk. The negotiation interface can also include functionality allowing the user to maintain a file for holding a cedent s unassumed submissions and assumed reinsurance risks. The file can permit the cedent to access information related to the unassumed submissions and the assumed reinsurance risks.

Also illustrated in are a negotiation detail header a negotiation detail menu and a negotiation footer . The negotiation detail header provides access to negotiation header administrative information. The negotiation detail menu allows access to tools providing additional negotiation functionality to facilitate reinsurance negotiations. The negotiation footer provides additional administrative information to assist in the processing of negotiation submissions response and replies.

In the illustrated embodiment of the present invention the submission negotiation detail interface provide access to a single negotiation for a single submission. In an alternative embodiment of the present invention the negotiation detail interface provide access to two or more negotiations for a single submission. In yet another embodiment of the present invention the negotiation interface provides access to all negotiations for each submission for a given cedent broker or assumer.

As will be understood by those skilled in the art the interfaces illustrated in and are included for illustrative purposes. Additional interfaces can be used to facilitate access to negotiation information and to facilitate the input and conveyance of negotiation information within the scope and spirit of the present invention.

Embodiments within the scope of the present invention also include computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media. Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination of hardwired or wireless links through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a conventional computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic reply output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up may be stored in ROM .

The computer may also include a magnetic hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a magnetic hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The magnetic hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of computer executable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . Although the exemplary environment described herein employs a magnetic hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk other types of computer readable media for storing data can be used including magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks Bernoulli cartridges RAMs ROMs and the like.

Program code means comprising one or more program modules may be stored on the hard disk magnetic disk optical disk ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . A user may enter commands and information into the computer through keyboard pointing device or other reply devices not shown such as a microphone joy stick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other reply devices are often connected to the processing unit through a serial port interface coupled to system bus . Alternatively the reply devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port a game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or another display device is also connected to system bus via an interface such as video adapter . In addition to the monitor personal computers typically include other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers and printers.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computers and Remote computers and may each be another personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically include many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only memory storage devices and and their associated application programs and have been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN that are presented here by way of example and not limitation. Such networking environments are commonplace in office wide or enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer may include a modem a wireless link or other means for establishing communications over the wide area network such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing communications over wide area network may be used.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

