---

title: Method for making digital documents browseable
abstract: A method for making one or more digital documents browseable. In one implementation, the digital documents may be automatically, topically segmented into one or more topical segments. A topical segment may be selected from the topical segments. One or more topical segments that are substantially similar to the selected topical segment may be identified. One or more links between the selected topical segment and the identified topical segment may be established. The established links may be displayed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08042053&OS=08042053&RS=08042053
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08042053
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070924
---
There is an increasing volume of digital documentation such as digital books digital documents in corporations and the like. The increased volume demands user models that can effectively enable users to search and utilize the digital documentation. Current models involve searching of content sequential browsing and random access browsing via the table of contents or word index type structures. These models provide a starting point for user access to the digital documents.

A typical digital documentation user model might allow a user to ask for content from one or more digital documents meeting specific criteria such as a given word or phrase and retrieve a list of items that match those criteria. The list may be sorted with respect to some measure of relevance of the results. The user is then left to examine the listed items and do additional searches for new words or phrases of interest.

Described herein are implementations of various techniques for a method for making one or more digital documents browseable. In one implementation digital documents may be automatically topically segmented into one or more topical segments. Alternatively the digital documents may be pre segmented or provided in units. A topical segment may be selected from the topical segments. One or more topical segments that are substantially similar to the selected topical segment may be identified by comparing the selected topical segment to the topical segments for similarity using one or more similarity algorithms ranking the compared topical segments by similarity and identifying ranked topical segments with a similarity above a specified similarity threshold. One or more links between the selected topical segment and the identified topical segments may be established and displayed.

In another implementation one or more key concepts and one or more key phrases may be extracted from each topical segment. A key phrase may be selected. One or more topical segments having key concepts that are substantially similar to the selected key phrase may be identified by comparing the selected key phrase to the key concepts for similarity using one or more similarity algorithms ranking the compared key concepts by similarity and identifying topical segments having ranked key concepts with a similarity above a specified similarity threshold. One or more links between the selected key phrase and the identified topical segments having key concepts that are substantially similar to the selected key phrase may be established and displayed.

In yet another implementation one or more table of contents for one or more digital documents may be segmented into one or more entries. An entry may then be selected. One or more entries that are substantially similar to the selected entry may be identified. One or more links between the selected entry and the identified entries that are substantially similar to the selected entry may be established and displayed.

The above referenced summary section is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description section. The summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

In general one or more implementations described herein are directed to various techniques for linking digital documents to provide a browsing experience for digital documents. Digital documents may be defined as documents that were created digitally or have been converted into a digital format. For example digital documents may include memos papers books and the like that were created in a computer environment or were scanned into a computer using Optical Character Recognition OCR . Digital documents may also include audio or video files that are in digital format. Digital documents may also be mostly flat digital documents which are documents that were not mainly created for the purpose of hyperlinked browsing such as digital books and enterprise documents.

In one implementation the digital documents may be automatically topically segmented. One or more key concepts and one or more key phrases may then be extracted from each topical segment. A topical segment may be selected and other topical segments may be compared to the selected topical segment for similarity. The compared topical segments may be ranked. Links may be established between the selected topical segment and the compared topical segments. This may be repeated for each topical segment. A key phrase may be selected and key concepts may be compared to the selected key phrase for similarity. The compared key concepts may be ranked. Links may be established between the selected key phrase and the topical segments associated with the compared key concepts. This may be repeated for each key phrase. The established links may then be displayed. One or more techniques for linking digital documents for browsing in accordance with various implementations are described in more detail with reference to in the following paragraphs

In addition one or more implementations described herein are directed to various techniques for linking table of contents for one or more digital documents to provide a browsing experience for table of contents for digital documents. Each table of contents may be automatically segmented into entries. A table of contents entry may be selected and other table of contents entries may be compared to the selected table of contents entry for similarity. The similarity comparison may be based on lexical similarity of the text of the entries or the text to which the entries point or other non lexical features. The compared table of contents entries may be ranked. Links may be established between the selected table of contents entry and the compared table of contents entries. This may be repeated for each table of contents entry. The established links may then be displayed. One or more techniques for linking table of contents for one or more digital documents for browsing in accordance with various implementations are described in more detail with reference to in the following paragraphs.

Implementations of various techniques described herein may be operational with numerous general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the various techniques described herein include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The various techniques described herein may be implemented in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The various techniques described herein may also be implemented in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network e.g. by hardwired links wireless links or combinations thereof. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The computing system may include a central processing unit CPU a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the CPU . Although only one CPU is illustrated in it should be understood that in some implementations the computing system may include more than one CPU. The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus. The system memory may include a read only memory ROM and a random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help transfer information between elements within the computing system such as during start up may be stored in the ROM .

The computing system may further include a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The hard disk drive the magnetic disk drive and the optical disk drive may be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media may provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing system .

Although the computing system is described herein as having a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the computing system may also include other types of computer readable media that may be accessed by a computer. For example such computer readable media may include computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media may further include RAM ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing system . Communication media may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may mean a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk magnetic disk optical disk ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs a linking module program data and a database system . The operating system may be any suitable operating system that may control the operation of a networked personal or server computer such as Windows XP Mac OS X Unix variants e.g. Linux and BSD and the like. The linking module will be described in more detail with reference to in the paragraphs below.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing system through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device . Other input devices may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices may be connected to the CPU through a serial port interface coupled to system bus but may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device may also be connected to system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor the computing system may further include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printers.

Further the computing system may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be another personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node. Although the remote computer is illustrated as having only a memory storage device the remote computer may include many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing system . The logical connections may be any connection that is commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet such as local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN .

When using a LAN networking environment the computing system may be connected to the local network through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing system may include a modem wireless router or other means for establishing communication over a wide area network such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing system or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware software or a combination of both. Thus various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

At step one or more digital documents may be automatically topically segmented. Topical segmentation may be dividing the digital documents into sections based on topic rather than by page or paragraph. A segment may contain one or more paragraphs or pages. Segmentation may be performed automatically using various methods including Text Tiling lexical chaining and the like. For example Text Tiling may assume that the content shifts from one topical segment to the next. The content may typically be represented using the tokens in a segment. A dramatic change in the distribution of tokens or their equivalents such as synonyms or co occurring tokens may signify a topical shift. Other features that can further enhance Text Tiling include the use of cue words that may indicate a topical shift or other techniques such as lexical chaining.

At step one or more key concepts may be automatically extracted from each topical segment. A key concept may capture the main idea or topic of a segment. Key concepts may be extracted automatically using various key concept extraction methods known in the art. For example key concepts from a predefined list may be mapped to text using unsupervised or supervised learning. In another approach a key concept may be extracted by selecting a sequence of words from the text that best describe the content typically using supervised learning. Continuing with the above example in a key concept for the first topical segment may be various sharks examined in this document. A key concept for the second topical segment may be defining the oceanic whitetip shark. A key concept for the third topical segment may be a description of the oceanic whitetip shark. 

At step one or more key phrases may be extracted from each topical segment. Key phrases may include various terms or ideas in a topical segment. Key phrases may be subtopics or references within the topical segment. One or more key phrases may be automatically extracted using various key phrase extraction methods known in the art. For example key phrase extraction may be accomplished by approaches that use phrase occurrence counts part of speech patterns and word collocations. In another approach key phrase extraction may be accomplished based on supervised learning in which a classifier is trained on features such as phrase location in a text segment a phrase term frequency and document frequency. Continuing with the above example in key phrases in the second topical segment may include oceanic whitetip shark carcharhinus longimanus pelagic shark and the like. Key phrases in the third topical segment may include oceanic whitetip shark and Rene Primevere Lesson .

At step a topical segment may be selected. Continuing with the above example in the second topical segment may be selected.

At step the selected topical segment and one or more compared topical segments may be automatically compared for similarity. The compared topical segments may be one or more topical segments within the same digital document and in other digital documents. Continuing with the above example in the selected topical segment and topical segment topical segment and any number of other topical segments in the same or other digital documents may be compared for similarity. The selected topical segment and each compared topical segment may be compared for similarity by applying similarity algorithms. The similarity algorithm applied may be content and word sequence based similarity such as cosine similarity okapi similarity relevance language models latent semantic indexing variations that use semantic similarity and the like. For example a vector space model and a probabilistic model may be used to compute the similarity between two text segments. Both of these models compute the similarity between two pieces of text within the context of other pieces of text and use document frequency term frequency and text segment length. Document frequency may be defined as the number of text segments in which a token appears. Term frequency may be defined as the number of times a token is mentioned in a text segment. The vector space model represents each text segment as a vector of features where the features are the tokens that makeup the segment and computes the angle between the two vectors using the dot product between the vectors. The probabilistic model as implemented using the OKAPI BM25 weighting formula is proportional to term frequency and inversely proportional to document frequency and text segment length. The OKAPI BM25 formula uses tuning parameters to control the effect term and document frequency and segment length. Other methods for computing similarity may not require the computation of similarity between two pieces of text within the context of other pieces of text hence they may not use document and term frequencies. Some methods for computing similarity may use paraphrase detection. The similarity algorithm may generate a similarity score for each compared topical segment in relation to the selected topical segment.

At step the compared topical segments may be ranked. The similarity score may be used to rank the compared topical segments. Highly similar topical segments may be ranked first while less similar topical segments may be ranked later. All compared topical segments may be ranked. Alternatively a threshold similarity score may be established and only compared topical segments with similarity rankings equal to or above the threshold similarity score may be ranked. In this manner in steps to one or more topical segments that are substantially similar to the selected topical segment may be identified.

Continuing with the above example in the second topical segment defining a particular species of shark may be found to be substantially similar to the first topical segment giving an overview of the sharks covered in the book and the third topical segment describing the particular species of shark. Therefore in relation to the second topical segment the first topical segment and the third topical segment may each have a high similarity ranking. In addition the second topical segment may be found to be substantially similar to topical segments in other digital documents giving these topical segment high similarity rankings.

At step links may be established between the selected topical segment and the ranked topical segments. A link may be defined as a navigation element in a digital document such that when the navigation element is selected by a user information from another segment of the same digital document or a specified segment of another digital document may be automatically displayed to the user. The links may be established by methods known in the art. The links may be unidirectional or bidirectional. The links may be hyperlinks inter links cross links and the like.

At step steps to may be repeated for each topical segment. In this manner each topical segment may be linked to substantially similar topical segments.

At step a key phrase may be selected. Continuing with the above example in the key phrase oceanic whitetip shark may be selected.

At step the selected key phrase and one or more compared key concepts may be automatically compared for similarity. The compared key concepts may be one or more key concepts extracted from the same digital document and other digital documents. Continuing with the above example in the selected key phrase and the key concept for the first topical segment various sharks examined in this document the key concept for the third topical segment a description of the oceanic whitetip shark and any number of other key concepts for topical segments in the same or other digital documents may be compared for similarity. The selected key phrase and each key concept may be compared for similarity by applying similarity algorithms. The similarity algorithm applied may be content and word sequence based similarity such as cosine similarity okapi similarity relevance language models latent semantic indexing variations that use semantic similarity and the like. The similarity algorithm applied may also be string similarity such as q grams edit distance and the like. The similarity algorithm may generate a similarity score for each compared key concept and the topical segment in which the key concept is found. It should be noted that each compared key concept is associated with a topical segment. The similarity between the selected key phrase and a compared key concept may be an indication of the similarity between the selected key phrase and the topical segment associated with the compared key concept. At step below the selected key phrase may be linked to topical segments with substantially similar key concepts such that a user desiring more information on a key phrase may browse to topical segments related to the key phrase.

At step the compared key concepts and their associated topical segments may be ranked. The similarity score may be used to rank the compared key concepts and their associated topical segments. Highly similar key concepts may be ranked first while less similar key concepts may be ranked later. All compared key concepts may be ranked. Alternatively a threshold similarity score may be established and only key concepts with similarity rankings equal to or above the threshold similarity score may be ranked. In this manner in steps to one or more topical segments having key concepts that are substantially similar to the selected key phrase may be identified.

Continuing with the above example in the key phrase oceanic whitetip shark may be found to be substantially similar to a key concept in the third topical segment a description of the oceanic whitetip shark. Therefore in relation to the key phrase oceanic whitetip shark the third topical segment may have a high similarity ranking. In addition key phrase oceanic whitetip shark may be found to be substantially similar to key concepts in topical segments in other digital documents giving these topical segments high similarity rankings.

At step links may be established between the selected key phrase and the topical segments associated with the ranked key concepts. The links may be established by methods known in the art. The links may be unidirectional or bidirectional. The links may be hyperlinks inter links cross links and the like.

At step steps to may be repeated for each key phrase. In this manner each key phrase may be linked to topical segments with substantially similar key concepts.

At step the established links may be displayed. The established links may be displayed according to ranking. The established links may be displayed in various manners. In one implementation the established links may be displayed as illustrated in . When a topical segment is currently being viewed by a user it will appear in the CURRENT TOPICAL SEGMENT box . Links to substantially similar topical segments from within the same digital document may be displayed in the PREVIOUS SIMILAR TOPICAL SEGMENTS IN THE SAME DIGITAL DOCUMENT box if they precede the current topical segment in the digital document and in the SUBSEQUENT SIMILAR TOPICAL SEGMENTS IN THE SAME DIGITAL DOCUMENT box if they come after the current topical segment in the digital document. Links to other digital documents containing substantially similar topical segments may be displayed in the OTHER DIGITAL DOCUMENTS WITH SIMILAR TOPICAL SEGMENTS box . A user may identify certain links as favorites and these links may be displayed in the FAVORITES box .

At step the table of contents for one or more digital documents may be automatically segmented into entries. Segmentation may be performed automatically using various methods including applying heuristics on visual cues or OCR output applying a statistical technique such as a classifier trained on the features of entries a combination of heuristics and statistics and the like.

At step the selected table of contents entry and compared table of contents entries may be automatically compared for similarity. The compared table of contents entries may be one or more table of contents entries within the same table of contents and in table of contents in other digital documents. The selected table of contents entry and each compared table of contents entry may be compared for similarity by applying similarity algorithms. Alternatively the text referenced by the selected table of contents entry and the text referenced by each compared table of contents entries may be compared for similarity. The similarity algorithm applied may be content and word sequence based similarity such as cosine similarity okapi similarity relevance language models latent semantic indexing variations that use semantic similarity and the like. Or the similarity algorithm applied may be string similarity such as q grams edit distance and the like. The similarity algorithm may generate a similarity score for each compared table of contents entry.

At step the compared table of contents entries may be ranked. The similarity score may be used to rank the compared table of contents entries. Highly similar table of contents entries may be ranked first while less similar table of contents entries may be ranked later. All compared table of contents entries may be ranked. Alternatively a threshold similarity score may be established and only compared table of contents entries with similarity rankings equal to or above the threshold similarity score may be ranked. In this manner in steps to one or more table of contents entries that are substantially similar to the selected table of contents entry may be identified.

At step links may be established between the selected table of contents entry and the ranked table of contents entries. The links may be established by methods known in the art. The links may be unidirectional or bidirectional. The links may be hyperlinks inter links cross links and the like.

At step steps to may be repeated for each table of contents entry. In this manner each table of contents entry may be linked to substantially similar table of contents entries.

At step the established links may be displayed. The established links may be displayed according to ranking and in various manners.

It should be noted that the method for linking digital documents to provide a browsing experience to digital documents and the method for linking the table of contents for one or more digital documents to provide a browsing experience to table of contents for digital documents may be implemented by a linking module . Also the method for linking digital documents to provide a browsing experience to digital documents and the method for linking the table of contents for one or more digital documents to provide a browsing experience to table of contents for digital documents may be implemented together such that the table of contents as well as the text of one or more digital documents may be linked to provide a browsing experience in accordance with implementations of various techniques described herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

