---

title: Method of inhibition of respiratory depression using positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators
abstract: The invention is directed to a method for alleviating respiratory depression in a subject as a result of disease of pharmacological agents such as opiates, opioids or barbiturates. The invention also discloses pharmaceutical compositions for use with the method, the composition containing in combination, an analgesic, anaesthetic, or a sedative and a positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator in an amount sufficient to reduce or inhibit respiratory depression caused by the analgesic, anaesthetic, or sedative.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08039468&OS=08039468&RS=08039468
owner: The Governors of the University of Alberta
number: 08039468
owner_city: Edmonton, AB
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20070830
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 824 245 filed Aug. 31 2006 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The invention is directed towards a method for reducing or inhibiting respiratory depression RD in a subject as a result of disease or pharmacological agents. Further a method for reversing drug induced respiratory depression without reversing analgesic or sedation response is provided. Furthermore a method and pharmaceutical composition is provided for inducing opiate opioid or barbiturate analgesia anesthesia or sedation in a subject without suppressing respiration.

There is a concerted effort by medical research toward understanding the neurochemical control of respiratory rhythm generating networks as well as the premotor and motoneuron circuits that determine activity patterns of respiratory muscles. Insights derived from experimental work are important for developing pharmacological interventions to alleviate respiratory depression in a variety of medical conditions. In this regard a specific region within the ventrolateral medulla the preB tzinger complex preB tC is a major region of investigative focus as playing a critical role in generating rhythmic inspiratory drive reviewed in Feldman et al. 2006 7 3 232 241 .

Within the preB tC glutamatergic synaptic signaling mediated by non NMDA receptors primarily amino 3 hydroxy 5 methyl 4 isoxazolepropionic acid AMPA receptors is particularly important for maintaining respiratory rhythm. See Greer J. J. et al. 1991 437 727 749 Funk G. D. et al. 1993 70 4 1497 1515. Block of non NMDA receptors with the antagonist 6 cyano 7 nitroquinoxaline 2 3 dione CNQX causes a dose dependent decline and eventual cessation of respiratory frequency and inspiratory drive to cranial and spinal motoneurons. Elevation of endogenously released glutamate levels with glutarnatergic uptake inhibitors Funk G. D. et al. 1993 or reduction of AMPA receptor desensitization see Funk G. D. et al. 1995 15 4046 4056 leads to increases in respiratory frequency in vitro.

Opiates have long been known to disrupt respiratory rhythm and to depress breathing and respiratory sensitivity to CO reviewed in Shook et al. 1990 142 4 895 909 . The pons and medulla are known to be the primary sites where opiate drugs produce these respiratory effects Id. . Endogenous opioids as well as and subtypes of opioid receptors are present in essentially all respiratory regions of the pons and medulla Yeadon and Kitchen 1989 33 1 1 16 . In vivo and in vitro investigations have shown that exogenous opioids depress inspiratory and expiratory neuronal activity postsynaptically Denavit Saubie Champagnat and Zieglgansberger 1978 155 1 55 67. as well as presynaptically Johnson Smith and Feldman 1996 80 6 2120 33 . The underlying cellular mechanisms responsible for the opiate effects on respiration have not however been elucidated.

Opiate agents are widely used in medicine. Because they depress breathing however their use is contraindicated in many instances especially in patients with compromised cardiovascular and pulmonary function. Thus there has been a long felt need to harness the analgesic power of the opiates and opioids without depressing the respiratory function of the patient.

The present invention addresses this and other needs by disclosing that positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators provide a novel pharmacological means of countering respiratory depression. The present invention demonstrates that a positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator which can potentiate AMPA receptor mediated currents Nagarajan N. et al. 2001 41 650 663 is an effective means of countering respiratory depression.

In one aspect of the invention a method is provided for reducing or inhibiting respiratory depression in a subject having respiratory depression comprising administering to the subject an amount of a positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator the amount being sufficient to reduce or inhibit respiratory depression. In one embodiment of the invention the subject is a mammal. In another embodiment the subject is a human.

In some embodiments of the invention the respiratory depression results from a drug overdose. In some embodiments the drug is an alcohol an opiate an opioid a barbiturate an anaesthetic or a nerve toxin. In other embodiments the subject has respiratory depression resulting from a medical condition. Typical medical conditions can include central sleep apnea stroke induced central sleep apnea obstructive sleep apnea congenital hypoventilation syndrome obesity hypoventilation syndrome sudden infant death syndrome Retts syndrome spinal cord injury traumatic brain injury Cheney Stokes respiration Ondines curse Prader Willi s syndrome and drowning.

Another aspect of the invention is a method for inducing analgesia anaesthesia or sedation in a subject while simultaneously reducing or inhibiting respiratory depression in the subject without altering in a clinically meaningful way the analgesic anaesthetic or sedative effect of the central respiratory depressant. The method comprises administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a central respiratory depressant sufficient to induce analgesia anaesthesia or sedation in a subject and concomitantly administering a therapeutically effective amount of a positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator sufficient to reduce or inhibit respiratory depression without affecting in a clinically meaningful way the analgesic anaesthetic or sedative effect of the central respiratory depressant.

Another aspect of the present invention is a pharmaceutical composition for inducing analgesia anaesthesia or sedation in a subject while simultaneously reducing or inhibiting respiratory depression in the subject the pharmaceutical composition comprising a central respiratory depressant a positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator and a suitable carrier.

In some embodiments the central respiratory depressant is an alcohol an opiate an opioid or a barbiturate. In some embodiments of the present invention the opiate or opioid is selected from the group consisting of alfentanil buprenorphine carfentanil codeine dihydrocodeine diprenorphine etorphine fentanyl heroin hydrocodone hydromorphone LAAM levorphanol meperidine methadone morphine nalbuphine naltrexone beta hydroxy 3 methylfentanyl oxycodone oxymorphone pentazocine propoxyphene remifentanil sufentanil tilidine tramadol enriched or pure enantiomers or diastereomers thereof racemic mixtures thereof and pharmaceutically suitable salts thereof the barbiturate is selected from the group consisting of allobarbital amylbarbital butabarbital hexabarbital mephobarbital methohexital pentobarbital phenobarbital phenethylbarbital secobarbital talbutal and thiopental.

In some embodiments of the present invention the compound is an AMPAKINE type positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator. In other embodiments the positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator is selected from the group consisting of CX CX 1 benzofurazan 5 ylcarbonyl 4 4 difluoropiperidine and 4 benzofurazan 5 ylcarbonyl morpholine. Additional positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator compounds suitable for use in the practice of the invention will be well known to persons of skill in the art.

The phrase respiratory depression or hypoventilation as used herein refers to a variety of conditions characterized by reduced respiratory frequency and inspiratory drive to cranial and spinal motor neurons. Specifically respiratory depression refers to conditions where the medullary neural network associated with respiratory rhythm generating activity does not respond to accumulating levels of PCO or decreasing levels of PO in the blood and subsequently understimulates motomeurons controlling lung musculature.

The term positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator as used herein refers to a compound that is an allosteric modulator of the AMPA receptor complex. Positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators enhance AMPA receptor signaling by binding to the AMPA receptor complex in its agonist bound state to modulate the kinetics of channel closing and transmitter dissociation from the receptor and receptor desensitization. In some embodiments the compound is an AMPAKINE type positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator. Non limiting exemplary positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators suitable for use with the invention include 1 1 3 benzodioxol 5 ylcarbonyl piperidine 1 BCP 1 quinoxalin 6 ylcarbonyl piperidine CX 1 1 4 benzodioxan 6 ylcarbonyl piperidine CX 2H 3H 6aH pyrrolidinol 2 1 3 2 1 3 oxazino 6 5 5 4 benzo e 1 4 dioxan 10 one CX 1 benzofarazan 5 ylcarbonyl 4 4 difluoropiperidine and 4 benzofurazan 5 ylcarbonyl morpholine. Additional positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators suitable for use with the invention are described herein and are known to persons of skill in the art.

The term AMPA receptor as used herein refers to receptors that are molecules or complexes of molecules present in cells particularly neurons usually at the surface membrane that recognize and bind to glutamate and AMPA. The binding of AMPA or glutamate to an AMPA receptor normally gives rise to a series of molecular events or reactions that result in a biological response.

The term opiate and opioid as used herein refer generically to a class of narcotic compounds characterized by having addiction forming or addiction sustaining properties similar to morphine or being capable of conversion into a drug having such addiction forming or addiction sustaining properties. Specifically the term opiate denotes compounds containing the fundamental morphine or thebaine structure and possessing some affinity to any or all of the opioid receptor subtypes. Examples of opiates are heroin buprenorphine and naltrexone. An opioid is any compound peptide or otherwise which while not containing the fundamental morphine or thebaine structure possesses some affinity for any or all of the opioid receptor subtypes. Common opioids are endorphin fentanyl and methadone. A non exclusive list of opiates and opioids includes mophine heroin opium cocaine fentanyl ecgonine thebaine. Commercially available opiates and opioids include alfentanil buprenorphine SUBUTEX carfentanil codeine dihydrocodeine diprenorphine etorphine IMMOBILON fentanyl heroin hydrocodone VICODIN hydromorphone DILAUDID LAAM levorphanol LEVO DROMORAN meperidine DEMEROL methadone DOLOPHINE morphine nalbuphine NUBAIN naltrexone TREXAN beta hydroxy 3 methylfentanyl oxycodone PERCODAN oxymorphone NUMORPHAN pentazocine TALWIN propoxyphene DARVON remifentanil ULTIVA sufentanil tilidine VALERON and tramadol ULTRAM . The definition includes all opiates and opioids from any source including naturally derived compounds synthetic compounds and semi synthetic compounds. The definition also includes all isomers stereoisomers esters ethers salts and salts of such isomers steroeisomers esters and ethers whenever the existence of such isomers stereoisomers esters and ethers is possible within the specific chemical designation.

The term barbiturate as used herein refers generically to a salt or ester of barbituric acid and includes any of a group of barbituric acid derivatives that act as central nervous system depressants and are used as sedatives or hypnotics. Non limiting exemplary barbiturates include allobarbital amylbarbital butabarbital hexabarbital mephobarbital methohexital pentobarbital Phenobarbital NEMBUTAL phenethylbarbital LUMINAL secobarbital SECONAL talbutal LOTUSATE and thiopental. The definition also includes all isomers stereoisomers esters ethers salts and salts of such isomers steroeisomers esters and ethers whenever the existence of such isomers stereoisomers esters and ethers is possible within the specific chemical designation.

The term subject refers to a mammal particularly a human. The term subject as used herein can refer to any mammal including domestic and common laboratory mammals such as non human primates kine horses pigs goats sheep dogs cats rabbits mice rats and the like.

The term central nervous system or CNS as used herein comprises the brain and the spinal cord. The term peripheral nervous system or PNS comprises all parts of the nervous system that are not part of the CNS including the cranial and spinal nerves and the autonomic nervous system.

As used herein the term effective amount or therapeutically effective amount refers to the amount or dosage of an agent sufficient to effectuate a desired therapeutic effect. Such amount may vary depending on the effect to be achieved and the agent used.

The terms reducing or inhibiting as used herein refers to a reduction in respiratory depression in a subject in the presence of the positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator as compared with the level of respiratory depression in the absence of the positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator. The reduction in respiratory frequency and inspiratory drive is reversed or alleviated by stimulating glutamatergic synaptic signaling mediated by non NMDA receptors potentiation of AMPA receptor mediated currents in the brain stem.

The phrase concomitantly administered as used herein refers to the administration of a first agent e.g. an positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator either before during or after the administration of a second agent e.g. a central respiratory depressant . The order of administration of the agents is not critical and the administration of the two agents may completely overlap partially overlap or not overlap. In embodiments where the administration periods of the two agents do not overlap the administration is still concomitant if the second agent is administered during the bioactive period of the first agent.

The term central respiratory depressant as used herein refers to any compound that acts on the central nervous system resulting in respiratory depression or hypoventilation. Typical central respiratory depressants can include drugs such as alcohol benzodiazepines barbiturates GHB opioids and opiates all of which can produce respiratory depression when taken in sufficient dosage. Non limiting exemplary opiates or opioids known to act as central respiratory depressants include heroin and fentanyl.

The present invention is directed to methods and compositions for reducing or inhibiting respiratory depression in a subject by administering a positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator to a subject in need thereof. Specifically the invention is based in part on the surprising discovery that positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators such as CX CX and 4 benzofurazan 5 ylcarbonyl morpholine enhance respiratory drive and rhythmogenesis in the brain and thereby counteract respiratory depression.

The combined use of in vitro in situ and in vivo rat models allowed for the analyses of various positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators on preB tC activity and respiratory motor pools in reduced and intact preparations across multiple developmental stages. In vivo studies further demonstrated the surprising result that the administration of a positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator not only alleviates opioid induced respiratory depression but does so without altering in a clinically meaningful way the analgesic effect of the opioid. These and other aspects of the present invention are discussed in more detail below and in the examples that follow.

The methods and compositions of the present invention are directed toward subjects having respiratory depression. The causes of respiratory depression that can be treated with the methods and compositions disclosed herein are varied and include drug overdose pharmaceutical use of central respiratory depressants and medial conditions including trauma.

In some embodiments the respiratory depression results from a drug overdose. Drug classes that are known to cause respiratory depression when taken in excess include narcotics benzodiazepines opiates opioids barbiturates and alcohol. Non limiting exemplary barbiturates that can cause respiratory depression when taken in excess include amobarbital SODIUM AMYTAL aprobarbital ALURATE butabarbital BUTISOL butalbital FIORINAL hexobarbital SOMBULEX methylphenobarbital MEBARAL pentobarbital NEMBUTAL phenobarbital LUMINAL secobarbital SECONAL sodium thiopental SODIUM PENTOTHAL and talbutal LOTUSATE . Non limiting exemplary benzodiazepines include alprazolam XANAX clonazepam KLONOPIN diazepam VALIUM flunitrazepam ROHYPNOL lorazepam ATIVAN nitrazepam MOGADON and temazepam RESTORIL . Non limiting exemplary non benzodiazepine GABA A modulators include zaleplon SONATA zopiclone LUNESTA and zolpidem AMBIEN . Non limiting exemplary deliriants that can cause respiratory depression when taken in excess include atropine diphenhydramine hydrochloride BENADRYL dimenhydrinate DRAMAMINE and scopolamine. Non limiting exemplary dissociative anaesthetics that can cause respiratory depression when taken in excess include fluorathane and related volatile anaesthetics dextromethorphan DXM ketamine KETASET nitrous oxide phencyclidine PCP salvinorin A found in Salvia divinorum and Opium Papaver somniferum . Non limiting exemplary opioids that can cause respiratory depression when taken in excess can include codeine fentanyl DURAGESIC ACTIQ heroin hydrocodone VICODIN hydromorphone DILAUDID meperidine DEMEROL methadone METHADOSE morphine oxycodone OXYCONTIN ROXICODONE oxymorphone OPANA and dextropropoxyphene DARVOCET .

In some embodiments respiratory depression occurs in a subject having a medical condition. Non limiting exemplary medical conditions that can cause respiratory depression include central sleep apnea stroke induced central sleep apnea obstructive sleep apnea sleep apnea resulting from Parkinson s disease congenital hypoventilation syndrome sudden infant death syndrome Retts syndrome Cheney Stokes respiration Ondines curse and Prader Willi s syndrome. In some embodiments the subject has respiratory depression as a result of a traumatic injury or neurodegenerative disease. Non limiting exemplary traumatic injuries that can be associated with respiratory depression include spinal cord injury traumatic brain injury and drowning. Non limiting exemplary neurodegenerative diseases include Parkinson s disease spinal muscular atrophy amyotrophic lateral sclerosis Huntington s disease and stroke.

Exemplary causes of respiratory depression that can be treated using the methods and compositions as disclosed herein are described above. In some embodiments a person of ordinary skill in the art will be able to recognize a subject having respiratory depression by direct observation. Symptoms of respiratory depression can include hypopnea which is characterized by a slow or shallow respiratory rate. Clinically significant hypopnea is characterized by a 50 or greater reduction in air flow and is associated with a 3 or greater desaturation in blood Olevels for 10 seconds or longer. In some embodiments a subject having respiratory depression will show signs of cyanosis which is a bluish coloration of the skin due to the presence of deoxygenated hemoglobin in blood vessels near the skin surface. Cyanosis occurs when the oxygen saturation of arterial blood falls below 85 .

In other embodiments respiratory depression can be diagnosed using a polysomnogram. This is typically done with subjects suspected of having some form of sleep apnea or another medical condition where respiratory rhythm is disturbed during sleep. In other embodiments respiratory acidosis a PaCO 6.3 kPa or 47 mm Hg and a pH of 7.35 is indicative of respiratory depression. In yet other embodiments respiratory depression can be routinely monitored using pulse oximetry. Respiratory airflow can be monitored with a nasal cannula connected to a pressure transducer and thoracic and abdominal respiratory movements are routinely monitored with piezoelectric strain gauges particularly in newborn infants.

Using the characteristic observations and tests as described above a person of ordinary skill in the art will be able to recognize a subject having respiratory depression and thereby in need of treatment with a positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator to reduce or inhibit the respiratory depression. In addition to the observations and tests set forth above a person of ordinary skill in the art will be aware of other characteristic signs symptoms and tests to recognize and diagnose respiratory depression suitable for use with the present invention. The next step in the practice of the invention is administering a positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator as described in more detail below to a subject having respiratory depression as described above.

Positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators are compounds that act allosterically to positively modulate AMPA receptor currents. Positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators do not act by directly stimulating neural activation but rather by upmodulating allosteric modulation neural activation and transmission in neurons that contain AMPA type glutamate receptors. Positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators bind to the AMPA receptor at a site other than the glutamate binding site but the binding itself does not give rise to ion fluxes through the receptor. However when a glutamate molecule binds to an AMPA receptor that has an positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator bound to it the subsequent ion flux is of longer duration that it would have been in the absence of the positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator being bound to the receptor. Thus in the presence of a positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators post synaptic neurons are activated by much lower concentrations of glutamate than post synaptic neurons that are not bound by a positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators.

The finding that the positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators such as CX CX and 4 benzofurazan 5 ylcarbonyl morpholine stimulated breathing without wide spread activation of neuronal circuits as detailed in the examples is surprising given the ubiquitous distribution of AMPA receptors within the central nervous system. Even more surprising is the discovery that positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators alleviate respiratory depression in light of studies showing that positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators e.g. AMPAKINE type positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators chronically elevate the production of BDNF in hippocampal and cortical neurons see Lauterbom J. C. et al. 2000 20 8 21 because BDNF decreases rather than increases the frequency of respiratory rhythm in medullary slice preparations see Thoby Brisson M. et al. 2003 23 7685 7689 .

The invention is based in part on the surprising discovery that administration of an effective amount of a positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator compound can reduce or alleviate respiratory depression in a subject in need thereof. Positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators are a large class of structurally diverse compounds that share common functional characteristics. Specifically positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators are allosteric modulators of the AMPA receptor. Positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators do not act by directly stimulating neural activation but rather by upmodulating allosteric modulation neural activation and transmission in neurons that contain AMPA type glutamate receptors. Positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators bind to the AMPA receptor at a site other than the glutamate binding site but the binding itself does not give rise to ion fluxes through the receptor. However when a glutamate molecule binds to an AMPA receptor that has a positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator bound to it the subsequent ion flux is of longer duration that it would have been in the absence of the positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator being bound to the receptor. Thus in the presence of a positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator post synaptic neurons are activated by much lower concentrations of glutamate that post synaptic neurons that are not bound by a positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator. This can be determined using standard electrophysiology methods as known to persons of skill in the art and as exemplified below in the screening methods to identify positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator compounds.

Positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator compounds modulate the AMPA amino 3 hydroxy 5 methyl isoxazole 4 propionic acid receptor complex by increasing the duration of glutamate induced AMPA receptor gated inward currents. See Arai A. C. et al. 2004 123 4 1011 1024. Positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator compounds act by modulating the kinetics of AMPA receptor deactivation channel closing and transmitter dissociation and desensitization. See Nagarajan N. et al. 2001 41 650 663. Positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators readily cross the blood brain barrier and appear to be well tolerated. See Lynch G. 2006 6 82 88 Goff D. C. et al. 2001 21 5 484 487 Porrino L. J. et al. 2005 3 9 1639 1652.

Exemplary positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators suitable for use in the practice of the present invention are disclosed in PCT Int l Pub. No. WO 94 02475 and in related U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 773 434 5 488 049 5 650 409 5 736 543 5 747 492 5 773 434 5 891 876 6 030 968 6 274 600 6 329 368 6 943 159 7 026 475 and U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 20020055508. Further non limiting exemplary positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators suitable for use with the present invention include sulfonamide derivatives as disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 174 922 6 303 816 6 358 981 6 362 230 6 500 865 6 515 026 6 552 086 PCT Int l Pub. Nos. WO 0190057 WO 0190056 WO 0168592 WO 0196289 WO 02098846 WO 0006157 WO 9833496 WO 0006083 WO 0006148 WO 0006149 WO 9943285 WO 9833496 bis sulfonamide derivatives as disclosed in WO 0194306 N substituted sulfonamide derivatives as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 525 099 and PCT Int l Pub. No. WO 0006537 heterocyclic sulfonamide derivatives as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 355 655 and PCT Int l Pub. Nos. WO0214294 WO0214275 and WO0006159 heterocyclyl sulfonamide derivatives as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 358 982 and PCT Int l Pub. No. WO0006158 alkenyl sulfonamide derivatives as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 387 954 and PCT Int l Pub. No. WO0006539 cycloalkenyl sulfonamide derivatives as disclosed in PCT Int l Pub. No. WO02098847 cyclopentyl sulfonamide derivatives as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 639 107 and PCT Int l Pub. No. WO0142203 cycloalkylfluoro sulfonamide derivatives as disclosed in PCT Int l Pub. No. WO0232858 acetylenic sulfonamide derivatives as disclosed in PCT Int l Pub. No. WO0218329 2 propane sulfonamide compounds and derivatives as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 596 716 and PCT Int l Pub. Nos WO2006087169 WO2006015827 WO2006015828 WO2006015829 WO2007090840 and WO2007090841 and 2 aminobenzenesulfonamide derivatives as disclosed in WO02089734. Benzoyl piperidine benzoyl derivatives and pyrrolidine compounds and related structures as disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 650 409 5 747 492 5 783 587 5 852 008 and 6 274 600. Compounds based on benzoxazine ring systems as disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 736 543 5 962 447 5 985 871 and PCT Int l Pub. Nos. WO 9736907 and WO9933469 acylbenzoxazines as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 124 278 and PCT Int l Pub. No. WO 9951240 carbonylbenzoxazine compounds as disclosed in PCT Int l Pub. No. WO03045315 substituted 2 3 benzodiazepin 4 ones as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 891 871 benzofurazan compounds as disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 110 935 6 313 115 and PCT Int l Pub. No. WO9835950. Particularly preferred benzofurazan compounds suitable for use with the invention are 1 benzofurazan 5 ylcarbonyl 4 4 difluoropiperidine 4 benzofurazan 5 ylcarbonyl morpholine and the like. Benzothiazide derivatives as disclosed in PCT Int l Pub. No. WO 9812185 and substituted 5 oxo 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 4H 1 benzopyrans and benzothiopyrans and related compounds as disclosed in PCT Int l Pub. No. WO0075123 are suitable for use as positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators in the practice of the invention. Additional positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators suitable for use with the practice of the invention are amidophosphate derivatives as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 521 605 and PCT Int l Pub. No. WO0006176 monofluoralkyl derivatives as disclosed in PCT Int l Pub. No. WO 0066546 and substituted quinazolines and analogs thereof as disclosed in PCT Int l Pub. No. WO 9944612 and quainoxaline compounds and derivatives as disclosed in PCT Int l Pub. No. WO2007060144. Additional compounds suitable for use as positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators with practice of the invention include 2 ethoxy 4 3 propane 2 sulfonylamino thiophen 2 yl biphenyl 4 carbox ylic acid and derivatives thereof as disclosed in U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 20060276532 pyrrole and pyrazole compounds and derivatives thereof as disclosed in U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 20070066573 and the thiadiazine compounds and derivatives as disclosed in U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 20070004709 and the benzoxazepine compounds and derivatives as disclosed in U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 20040171605. Other compounds suitable for use as positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators are disclosed in PCT Int l Pub. Nos. WO 9942456 WO 0006156 WO 0157045 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 617 351.

Each of the compounds classes disclosed in the above references are suitable for use with the present invention as positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators. A person of ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that the compounds described above while being structurally diverse share the common functional characteristics of positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators as described above and that because of these common functional characteristics the compounds are suitable for use in the practice of the invention.

Compounds suitable for use with the invention are those that amplify or positively modulate the activity of the natural stimulators of AMPA receptors particularly by amplifying the excitatory synaptic response. As disclosed above a wide variety of structurally diverse compounds are useful with the practice of the invention and the identification of additional compounds suitable for use with the invention is routine based on the common functional characteristics shared by positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators. Screening methods to identify additional compounds suitable for use with the invention involve a variety of accepted tests to determine whether or not the candidate compound is a positive allosteric modulator of the AMPA receptor. The primary assay is measurement of glutamate or AMPA induced currents using whole cell patch clamping excised patch clamping and enlargement of the excitatory post synaptic potential EPSP in vitro brain slices such as rat hippocampal slices or in the rat hippocampus in vivo.

The wave form of a normal EPSP is composed of an AMPA component which has a relatively rapid rise in time in the depolarizing direction 5 10 msec and which decays within 20 msec. an NMDA component characterized by a slow 30 40 msec. rise time and a slow 40 70 msec. decay time and a GABA component in the opposite hyperpolarizing direction exhibiting a time course with a rise time of 10 20 msec and a very slow decay of at least 50 100 msec. It should be noted that the NMDA portion of the EPSP typically does not appear in normal CSF media but can appear in low magnesium media.

The different components of the EPSP can be separately measured to assay the effect of a candidate molecule as an AMPA receptor enhancing agent. This is specifically accomplished by adding agents that block the unwanted components so that the detectable responses are essentially only AMPA responses. For example an NMDA receptor blocker e.g. AP 5 or other NMDA blockers well known in the art and or a GABA blocker e.g. picrotoxin or other GABA blockers well known in the art are added to the slice preparation. To prevent epileptiform activity in the GABA blocked slices known agents such as tetrodotoxin can be used.

In some embodiments an excised membrane patch assay is used for validating candidate compounds as positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators suitable for use with the present invention involves the use of excised membrane patches as described in Arai et al. 1994 638 343 346. Specifically outside out patches can be obtained from pyramidal hippocampal neurons and transferred to a recording chamber. Glutamate pulses are applied and data collected with a patch clamp amplifier and digitized as described in Arai et al. 1994 . Because these neurons only contain glutamatergic receptors GABAergic currents will not be seen. NMDA currents can be blocked as described above using agents such as AP 5.

In other embodiments potential positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulating compounds are validated using an in vitro brain slice assay. Specifically brain slices such as hippocampal slices from a mammal such as a rat are prepared and maintained in an interface chamber using conventional methods known to persons of ordinary skill in the art. In embodiments where a hippocampal slice is used EPSPs are recorded from the stratum radiatum region of CA1b and elicited from the slice by single stimulation pulses delivered once per 20 seconds to a bipolar electrode positioned in the Schaffer commissural projections as described previously. See Granger et al. 1993 15 326 329 Staubli V. et al. 1994 91 777 781 Staubli V. et al. 1994 91 11158 11162 and Arai et al. 1994 638 343 346.

In still other embodiments the physiological effects of potential positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator compound can be tested in vivo in anaesthetized animals according to the following procedures. Animals are maintained under anaesthesia by phenobarbitol administered using a Hamilton syringe pump. Stimulating and recording electrodes are inserted into the perforant path and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus respectively. Once electrodes are implanted a stable baseline of evoked responses is elicited using single monophasic pulses 100 sec pulse duration delivered at a rate of 3 min to the stimulating electrode. Field EPSPs are monitored until a stable baseline is achieved about 20 30 minutes after which a solution of test compound in HPCD is injected intraperitoneally and evoked field potentials are recorded. Evoked potentials are recorded for approximately 2 hours following drug administration or until the amplitude of the field EPSP returns to baseline. In the latter instance it is common that an i.v. administration is also carried out with an appropriate dose of the same test compound.

Positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators useful in the invention are those substances that cause an increased ion flux through the AMPA receptor complex channels in response to glutamatergic stimulation. Increased ion flux is typically measured as one or more of the following parameters at least a 10 increase in decay time amplitude of the waveform and or the area under the curve of the waveform and or a decrease of at least 10 in rise time of the waveform for example in preparations treated to block NMDA and GABA components. The increase or decrease is preferably at least 25 50 most preferably it is at least 100 . How the increased ion flux is accomplished e.g. increased amplitude or increased decay time is of secondary importance positive modulation is reflective of increased ion fluxes through the AMPA channels regardless of how achieved.

In some embodiments the present invention provides methods for the use of a pharmaceutical composition suitable for administering an effective amount of at least one positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator in unit dosage form to treat a subject with respiratory depression. In still other embodiments the composition can comprise an analgesic an anaesthetic or a sedative in addition to at least one positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator in an amount sufficient to reduce or alleviate respiratory depression resulting from the analgesic anaesthetic or sedative. In other embodiments the composition further comprises a pharmaceutical carrier.

Another aspect of the invention provides pharmaceutical compositions for inducing analgesia or anesthesia while simultaneously minimizing respiratory suppression the composition comprising an opiate or opioid compound including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof or a barbiturate including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof admixed with a positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator in combination with an acceptable carrier and optionally in combination with other therapeutically active ingredients or inactive accessory ingredients. The carrier must be pharmaceutically acceptable in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious to the recipient. The pharmaceutical compositions include those suitable for oral sublingual topical transdermal inhalation rectal or parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular and intravenous administration.

In some embodiments the therapeutically effective components of the pharmaceutical compositions are capable of forming both pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition and or base salts. All of these forms are within the scope of the present invention and can be administered to a subject to treat respiratory depression.

Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the present invention include but are not limited to salts derived form non toxic inorganic acids such as hydrochloric nitric phosphoric sulphuric hydrobromic hydriodic hydrofluoric phosphorous and the like as well as salts derived from non toxic organic acids such as aliphatic mono and dicarboxylic acids phenyl substituted alkanoic acids hydroxy alkanoic acids alkanedioic acids aromatic acids aliphatic and aromatic sulfonic acids and the like. Non limiting exemplary salts include sulphate pyrosulfate bisulfate sulfite bissulfite nitrate phosphate monohydrogenphosphate dihydrogenphosphate metaphosphate pyrophosphate chloride bromide iodide acetate trifluoroacetate propionate caprylate isobutyrate oxalate malonate succinate suberate sebacate fumarate malcate mandelate benzoate chlorobenzoate methylbenzoate dinitrobenzoate phthalate benzenesulfonate toluenesulfonate phenylacetate citrate lactate maleate tartrate methanesulfonate and the like. Slats of amino acids such as arginate gluconate glacturonate and n methyl glucamine are also contemplated.

Acid addition salts of the basic compounds are prepared by contacting the free base form with a sufficient amount of desired acid to produce the salt in a convention manner. The free base form can be regenerated by contacting the salt form with a base and isolating the free base in a conventional manner. The free base form differs from the salt form in certain physical properties but are otherwise equivalent to the salt form for purposes of the present invention.

Pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts are formed with metals or amides such as alkali or alkaline earth metals or organic amines. Non limiting exemplary metals that can be used include sodium potassium magnesium calcium and the like. Non limiting exemplary amines include N2 N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine choline diethanolamine dicyclohexamine ethylenediamine N methylglucamine and procaine.

Base addition salts of the acidic compounds are prepared by contacting the free acid form with a sufficient amount of the desired base to produce the salt in a conventional manner. The free acid form can be regenerated by contacting the salt form with an acid and isolating the free acid in a conventional manner. The free acid differs from the salt form in certain physical characteristics but are otherwise equivalent for purposes of the invention.

Some compounds suitable for use with the present invention can exist in unsolvated and solvated forms. The solvated forms including hydrated forms are equivalent to the unsolvated forms and are intended to be encompassed within the scope of the present invention. Certain compounds suitable for use with the present invention possess one or more chiral centers and each center can exist in a different configuration. Some of these compounds can therefore form stereoisomers and the present invention contemplates the use of both the individual isolated isomers and mixtures thereof.

Pharmaceutical compositions for use with the present invention can be prepared in a pharmaceutical carrier. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers can be in any suitable form e.g. solids liquids aerosols gels etc. . Non limiting exemplary solid form preparations include powders tablets pills capsules cachets suppositories and dispersible granules. A solid carrier can be one or more substances which may also act as diluents flavouring agents binders preservatives tablet disintegrating agents or an encapsulating material.

For injections the agents used in the invention can be formulated in aqueous solutions preferably in physiologically compatible buffers such as Hank s solution Ringers solution or physiologically buffered saline PBS . For transmucosal or transdermal administration penetrants appropriate to the barrier to be permeated are used in the formulation. Suitable penetrants will be known to persons of ordinary skill in the art.

In embodiments where the agents are present in powdered form the carrier is a finely divided solid which is in a mixture with the finely divided active component. In tablets the active agent is mixed with the carrier having necessary binding properties in suitable proportions and pressed into the desired size and shape.

Powders and tablets typically contain from about 5 to about 70 active compound. Non limiting exemplary suitable carriers include magnesium carbonate magnesium stearate talc sugar lactose pectin dextrin starch gelatin tragacanth methylcellulose sodium carboxymethylcellulose. For suppositories low melting wax cocoa butter mixtures of fatty acid glycerides and the like can be used.

Non limiting exemplary liquid form preparations include solutions suspensions and emulsions e.g. water or water propylene glycol solutions . For parenteral injection liquid preparations can be formulated as solutions in aqueous polyethylene glycol. For oral administration aqueous solutions can be prepared by dissolving the active components in water and adding suitable colorants flavors stabilizing thickening and suspending agents as desired.

Also contemplated are solid form preparations that are intended to be converted shortly before use to liquid preparations for oral administration. Such liquids forms include solutions suspensions and emulsions. Such preparations may contain in addition to the active component colorants flavors stabilizers buffers dispersants thickeners solubilizing agents and the like.

The pharmaceutical preparations is typically in unit dosage form. As such the pharmaceutical preparation is subdivided into unit doses containing appropriate quantities of the active component s . The unit dosage form can be a packaged preparation the package containing discrete quantities of preparation such as tablets capsules powders or liquids in vials or ampules.

General procedures for preparing pharmaceutical preparations are well known to persons of ordinary skill in the art and are described in for example Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences E.W. Martin ed. Mack Publishing Co. PA 1990 .

The present invention contemplates a variety of techniques and routes of administration of the compounds used in the practice of the invention. Non limiting exemplary routes of administration suitable for use with the present invention include oral sublingual rectal transdermal vaginal transmucosal or enteric. Parenteral delivery including intramuscular subcutaneous intramedullary intrathecal intravenous intraarterial intraperitoneal intranasal intraocular as well as direct intraventricular injections among others are contemplated. Indeed it is not intended that the present invention be limited to any particular route of administration.

In one aspect of the invention the amount of positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator administered to a subject is that of an effective amount to reduce or alleviate respiratory depression in the subject. The quantity of a positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator in a unit dose preparation can be from about 0.001 mg kg body weight to about 100 mg kg body weight. Preferably the amount of a positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator per unit dose will range from about 0.01 mg kg to about 50 mg kg. More preferably the unit dose of a positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator will be in the range of about 0.1 mg kg to about 10 mg kg body weight. The composition can if desired also contain other compatible therapeutic agents.

The exact dose to be administered to a subject having respiratory distress will depend on a number of factors unique to the individual subject to be treated and the particular positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator being administered and are ultimately the responsibility of the treating physician or veterinarian . It is contemplated that as part of the subject evaluation it is well within the skill of the care provider to know how to and when to terminate interrupt or adjust administration due to toxicity etc. Conversely the care provider will also know how to adjust treatment to higher levels in circumstances where clinical response is inadequate while precluding toxicity. The magnitude of an administered dose in the management of respiratory depression will vary with the particular agents administered route of administration the severity of the respiratory depression and the individual subjects physiology biochemistry etc. The severity of the respiratory depression can be evaluated in part by standard methodologies and the dose and frequency of administration will also depend in part on the age body weight sex and response for each individual subject.

All patents patent applications and other publications cited in this application are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The following examples are included for illustration purposes and are not intended to be construed as a limitation on the invention in any way. It will be appreciated by those of skill in the art that the techniques disclosed herein and in the examples that follow represent techniques discovered by the inventor to function well in the practice of the invention and can thus be considered to represent preferred modes for practice of the invention. However those skilled in the art will also recognize in light of the present disclosure that many changes can be made to the specific embodiments disclosed herein and obtain similar results without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention.

This example details effects of positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators on patterns of respiratory related activity using various in vitro models under controlled conditions. Specifically these experiments demonstrated that positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators e.g. CX CX and 4 benzofurazan 5 ylcarbonyl morpholine markedly enhanced the frequency of respiratory rhythm in vitro in E18 P0 rats and restored depressed rhythm in older neonates in both the brainstem spinal cord and medullary slice preparations.

The fetal and neonatal brainstem spinal cord preparations have been well characterized and shown to generate complex coordinated patterns of respiratory related activity. See Smith J. C. et al. 1990 and Greer J. J. et al. 1992 . Recordings from cervical ventral and hypoglossal cranial roots provide information regarding the pharmacology of respiratory rhythm generating networks and the pathways transmitting that respiratory drive to key output components of the respiratory motor system without the confounding influence of peripheral chemoreceptors and supramedullary structures.

Brainstem spinal cord preparations were carried out as follows Sprague Dawley SD rat fetuses were delivered from timed pregnant dams anesthetized with halothane 2 delivered in 95 Oand 5 CO and maintained at 37 C. by radiant heat following procedures approved by the Animal Welfare Committee at the University of Alberta. The timing of pregnancies was determined by vaginal lavage of the dam. Newborn rat pups were anesthetized with metofane. Newborn pups and embryos were then decerebrated and the brainstem spinal cord was dissected following procedures similar to those established for perinatal rats. See Smith J. C. et al. 1990 64 1149 1169 Greer J. J. et al. 1992 67 996 999. The neuraxis was continuously perfused at 27 1 C. perfusion rate 5 ml minute chamber volume of 1.5 ml with modified Kreb s solution that contained mM 128 NaCl 3.0 KCl 1.5 CaCl 1.0 MgSO 24 NaHCO 0.5 NaHPO and 30 D glucose equilibrated with 95 O 5 CO pH 7.4 .

The medullary slice preparation is a derivative of the brainstem spinal cord preparation. See Smith J. C. et al. 1991 . It contains the minimum component of neuronal populations within the ventrolateral medulla necessary for generating a respiratory rhythm the preB tC. The medullary slice also contains a significant portion of the rostral ventral respiratory group hypoglossal nucleus and XII cranial nerve rootlets from which inspiratory motor discharge is recorded.

Brainstem spinal cords isolated from newborn rats were pinned down ventral surface upward on a paraffin coated block. See Funk G. D. et al. 1993 Smith J. C. et al. 1991 . The block was mounted in the vise of a vibratome bath Leica VT1000S . The brainstem was sectioned serially in the transverse plane starting from the rostral medulla to within approximately 150 m of the rostral boundary of the preB tC as judged by the appearance of the inferior olive. A single transverse slice containing the preB tC and more caudal reticular formation regions was then cut 500 600 m thick transferred to a recording chamber and pinned down onto a Sylgard elastomer. The medullary slice was continuously perfused with a bathing solution identical to that used for the brainstem spinal cord preparation with the exception that in some cases the K concentration was increased to 9 mM which facilitates long term generation of stable rhythm 5 hours by these preparations. See Funk G. D. et al. 1993 Smith J. C. et al. 1991 . Recordings were made from the hypoglossal XII cranial nerve roots cervical C4 ventral roots and neuronal population discharge within the ventrolateral medulla with suction electrodes placed over the nerve roots or on the surface of the rhythmic slice preparations.

C. CX Alleviates DAMGO Induced Respiratory Depression in Brainstem Spinal Cord Preparations and in Medullary Slice Preparations

The next series of experiments examined the ability of positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator compounds CX CX and 4 benzofurazan 5 ylcarbonyl morpholine to counter the depression of respiratory frequency and amplitude caused by the opioid receptor agonist DAMGO. show recordings of rhythmic respiratory discharge generated by P1 brainstem spinal cord and medullary slice bathed in 9 mM K preparations. DAMGO 800 nM markedly suppressed respiratory frequency and amplitude in both preparations. The DAMGO induced depression was alleviated by the subsequent administration of CX 200 M . Population data are provided in . The administration of CX on its own did not significantly alter the control values of respiratory frequency or amplitude of motor nerve discharge generated by medullary slice preparations bathed in 9 mM K . Similar results were obtained following focal injection of CX 200 M or 4 BENZOFURAZAN 5 YLCARBONYL MORPHOLINE 1 mM into the Pre B tC or XII motomeuron nucleus alleviates DAMGO induced suppression of respiratory rhythm in newborn rat medullary slice preparations.

Rhythmically active brainstem spinal cord and medullary slice preparations in rat are not viable beyond the newborn period. However one can examine central respiratory control and its pharmacology in reduced preparations of older rodents using the in situ working heart brainstem preparation see Paton J. F. 1996 . These preparations generate a normal in vivo like breathing motor pattern which includes augmenting phrenic bursts. They are also oxygenated throughout and have uniform brain tissue pH. See Wilson R. J. et al. 2001 281 R528 538. shows a representative example of phrenic nerve discharge recorded from a P24 rat in situ preparation. Administration of fentanyl 4 nM to the perfusate produced a significant decrease of respiratory frequency and phrenic burst amplitude that was countered by subsequent administration of CX 50 M . Population data are presented in . Detailed methods of the model are provided elsewhere and are only briefly detailed here. See Paton J. F. 1996 65 63 68 Day T. A. et al. 2003 106 50. In brief juvenile SD rats between 3 and 4 weeks of age 80 120 g were anesthetized with isoflurane submerged in ice cold oxygenated perfusate decerebrated and transected caudal to the diaphragm and the descending aorta cannulated 

The in vivo experiments described below from newborn and adult rats demonstrated that the actions of Positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators observed in vitro and in situ also occur in the intact animal.

This example examined the breathing patterns generated by unanesthetized newborn P0 P2 and adult rats. Whole body plethysmographic measurements of the frequency and depth of breathing were made from unrestrained SD rats of either sex. Pressure changes associated with breathing were measured using either a 27 ml chamber for postnatal P 0 P1 rats or a 2200 ml chamber for adult rats 150 200 gm a pressure transducer model DP 103 Validyne Northridge Calif. and signal conditioner CD 15 Validyne . For newborns the plethysmograph was contained within an infant incubator model C 86 Isolette Warminster Pa. in order to maintain the ambient temperature at the approximate nest temperature of 32 C. See Abel R. A. et al. 1998 32 2 91 99.

Respiration was depressed by i.p. administration of either the opioid receptor agonist fentanyl or the barbiturate phenobarbital. CX was administered intraperitoneally i.p. at a dosage of 16 mg kg dose based on Lauterborn et al. 2000 . Fentanyl HCl 60 g kg for newborn and 130 g kg for adult rats and phenobarbital 28 mg kg for newborn and 100 mg kg for adult rats were dissolved in physiological saline and administered i.p. 5 10 l total volume for newborn and 150 300 l for adult rats to reduce baseline respiratory frequency by 50 . Administration of vehicle did not affect the respiratory parameters studied in any preparation.

Inter breath intervals and the relative amplitude of volume excursions associated with each breath were calculated before and after 5 minutes i.p. drug administration. In all cases values are given as means and standard deviations. Statistical significance was tested using Student s t test for paired or unpaired data two groups or one way repeated measures ANOVA multiple groups followed by Holm sidak test for multiple comparisons. Significance was accepted at p values lower than 0.05. As shown in representative examples in B and C and in the population data of E and F both of the opioid receptor agonist significantly decreased respiratory frequency and burst amplitude. Subsequent i.p. injection of CX 16 mg kg reversed the opiate and phenobarbital mediated respiratory depression. The baseline frequency and amplitude of newborn P0 P2 n 5 and adult rats n 3 data not shown however were not significantly altered by the same dose of CX on its own. CX was also without any obvious effect on the behaviour or of arousal state i.e. increase decrease in spontaneous movement agitation indication of sedation of the rats.

To determine whether the i.p. administration of CX affects fentanyl induced analgesia in vivo a thermal nocioception test was used. Thermal nociception was measured by a modification of a previously reported method. See Hargreaves K. et al. 1988 32 77 88. Briefly unrestrained rats were placed in a plastic chamber 14 16 22 cm and allowed to acclimate for 10 min. before testing. The plantar test apparatus Ugo Basile Comerio VA Italy consisted of a movable infrared heat source OSRAM 8V 50W halogen lamp which was positioned directly beneath the hind paw 20 mm below the chamber floor. Heat settings were 30 and 50 manufacturer settings for newborn and adult rats respectively. The instrument detected paw withdrawal latency from the onset of heat exposure with an accuracy to 0.1 sec. When the rat perceived pain and withdrew its paw the instrument automatically detected the withdrawal latency to the nearest 0.1 sec.. Withdrawal latencies were recorded before during and after each drug administration. The heat stimulus was automatically terminated if a withdrawal response was not observed within 20 sec. of its onset.

The measured results from the thermal nociception test showed that the latency of hind paw withdrawal was 4.9 3.8 s and 5.6 1.7 s for newborns and adult rats respectively see Table 1 . Administration of the fentanyl at doses that suppressed respiratory rhythm 60 g kg for newborn and 130 g kg for adult rats extended the latency to paw withdrawal to the 20 sec cut off limit. Thus fentanyl induced analgesia which manifest in the loss of foot withdrawal persisted despite the subsequent i.p. administration of CX 16 mg kg . The fentanyl induced analgesic effect was however blocked by the subsequent administration of naloxone 1 mg kg in both newborn and adult rats. When CX 16 mg kg was administrated on its own it did not change the sensitivity of thermal nociception tests in the control condition. These results demonstrate that CX reduces the deleterious respiratory depressant effects of opioids without inhibiting their desirable analgesic actions.

C. Effects of Positive Allosteric AMPA Receptor Modulator Compounds CX and 4 Benzofurazan 5 Ylcarbonyl Morpholine in Vivo for Alleviating Opiate Induced Respiratory Depression

To demonstrate that the effects of positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulators as seen in the above experiments were not unique to CX the actions of CX and 4 benzofurazan 5 ylcarbonyl morpholine on opiate induced respiratory depression were examined in SD rats in vivo with whole body plethysmography. Whole body plethysmographic measurements of the frequency and depth of breathing were made from unrestrained SD rats. Pressure changes associated with breathing were measured with a 300 ml chamber for P17 rats 35 g a pressure transducer model DP 103 Validyne Engineering Northridge Calif. and a signal conditioner CD 15 Validyne Engineering . Respiration was depressed by i.p. administration of the opioid receptor agonist fentanyl 130 g kg . As shown in fentanyl significantly decreased respiratory frequency and amplitude within a few minutes of administration numbers on the left of traces refer to minutes after fentanyl injection . The respiratory depression was still evident at 1 hour. The subsequent i.p. injection of the vehicle HPCD solution without a positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator compound had no effect on the opiate mediated suppression of respiratory rhythm see right trace . It is notable that the time course of fentanyl induced depression of breathing with vehicle injection is the same as previously observed in experiments without any intervention.

In another P17 rat the subsequent injection of 4 benzofurazan 5 ylcarbonyl morpholine 33 mg kg made with HPCD solution reversed the fentanyl induced respiratory depression within 5 min see left trace . The enhancement of respiratory rhythm by 4 benzofurazan 5 ylcarbonyl morpholine persisted for at least 1 hour. 4 benzofurazan 5 ylcarbonyl morpholine was also without any obvious effect on the behaviour or arousal state i.e. increase decrease in spontaneous movement agitation indication of sedation of the rats. In a separate experiment fentanyl induced respiratory depression was partially alleviated with doses as low as 20 mg kg of 4 benzofurazan 5 ylcarbonyl morpholine.

In another P17 rat the subsequent injection of CX 2.5 mg kg made with HPCD solution also reversed the fentanyl induced respiratory depression within minutes see . The enhancement of the respiratory rhythm persisted for at least 1 hour as with the administration of 4 benzofurazan 5 ylcarbonyl morpholine. CX was also without any obvious effect on the behaviour or arousal state i.e. increase decrease in spontaneous movement agitation indication of sedation of the rats.

This example details the treatment of a patient having respiratory depression with a positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator. The first step in the treatment process is diagnosis of respiratory depression by a skilled artisan. This can be accomplished by visual inspection of the patient having a bluish tint to the skin and the noticeable absence of breathing or hypoventilation as evidenced by shallow infrequent breaths.

A positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator e.g. CX prepared in a sterile buffered physiological saline solution can be administered to the patient via intravenous injection at a dosage of about 0.1 to 10 mg CX kg body weight.

The patient is then monitored for changes in respiration using the criteria set forth above including skin hue and or depth and frequency of breaths. Additional positive allosteric AMPA receptor modulator can be delivered until the patient s breathing has stabilized to normal levels.

