---

title: Integrated multilingual browser
abstract: The disclosed system translates into different languages HTML documents available through the World Wide Web. HTML documents are translated by machine translation software bundled in a browser. Alternatively, documents are retrieved as needed, translated, and stored on a Web server so user requests are serviced with a document that has been translated from a different language. The disclosed invention expands usage of the Internet for non-English speakers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07716038&OS=07716038&RS=07716038
owner: AOL Inc.
number: 07716038
owner_city: Dulles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071106
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 059 752 titled INTEGRATED MUTILINGUAL BROWSER filed Feb. 17 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 292 987 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 555 916 titled INTEGRATED MUTILINGUAL BROWSER filed Nov. 13 1995 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 993 471.

The present invention relates generally to the field of electronic communication over a computer network. Particularly the present invention relates to the expansion of multi lingual electronic communication through translation services for documents and messages available through the Internet.

The recent surge in media attention to the Internet and especially the World Wide Web coupled with the continuing growth in home PC ownership have resulted in a growing diversity of the Internet user population. No longer is the Internet the province of software experts thousands of novice users have begun to come online each day. Software like CompuServe s Web Browser lets users quickly connect to and find useful content online. This phenomenon is not restricted to the United States or to English speaking countries. Growth in online usage in Europe and Asia is increasing even more quickly than in the U.S.

While interest in the online world is at a peak a significant obstacle exists to broad usage of the Internet for non English speakers. The vast majority of Internet content is in English and is therefore inaccessible to users with other native languages. Translation of Internet documents by a human translator is not a practical solution for two reasons. First human translation is costly and slow. A translator can typically produce 300 400 words per hour at costs of 12 per word or more. Second in order to have a translator convert Internet documents to the user s native language the user would have to download every document he was interested in to provide it to the translator. This is a time consuming process and if the user knows no English he will not even be able to assess the relevance of the document before downloading it. This would result in wasted time and translation costs since inevitably some of the documents selected will not prove to be worthwhile.

The present invention allows non English speaking Internet users to access and understand information available from the World Wide Web and related sources. Language translation software known as machine translation or MT is combined with Internet software to allow non English speaking Internet users to quickly generate translations of online text. The process is automated and therefore less costly and time consuming than human translation. Advantages of the present invention are explained further in relation to the following detailed description of the invention drawings and claims.

Although the detailed description of a preferred embodiment focuses on automatic translation of World Wide Web pages the concept is adaptable to documents obtained from other sources.

The World Wide Web WWW or the Web is a distributed information system that may be accessed through a number of sources. It is comprised of software and a set of protocols and conventions. Information on the Web may be accessed using a browser program such as CompuServe s Web Browser. Browsers allow users to read documents and to locate documents from other sources. They present an interface for interacting with the system and they process requests on behalf of the user.

Information providers on the WWW make their information available through programs that understand the HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP . Browsers assist users in visiting Web sites where information is stored. Information is displayed in pages of text and graphics called Web Pages. An example of a Web page as viewed through CompuServe s Web Browser is provided in . The Web page shown in contains both text and graphics . The title bar menu options buttons and document information appearing at the top of the screen are part of the browser used to view the Web page.

In most cases information providers make information available through a Web server. The server responds to information requests by delivering the requested information to the user s browser for viewing. Some providers may make their information available through a proxy server that converts information in one format to the format expected and understood by the browser.

Documents available on the WWW and displayed by browsers are hypertext documents. Hypertext is text that contains references or links hyperlinks or hot spots to other documents. The reference is similar to a footnote except the referenced document may be accessed directly from the original document. The related document may be viewed by selecting or clicking the mouse on the reference. The process of selecting hyperlinks to view referenced documents may be referred to as traversing the hyperlinks. Unlike a footnote references usually do not appear as shorthand descriptions of related documents. Instead references may be indicated by a combination of graphics different fonts different colors for the text underlining the mouse pointer turning into a hand etc. The referenced documents may reside on different computers at different Web sites.

Hypertext documents are written in a markup language call Hypertext Markup Language HTML . HTML actually refers to both a document type and the markup language that represents instances of the document type. A hypertext document contains general semantics appropriate for representing display or presentation characteristics as well as information from a wide ranges of domains. A hypertext document consists of a sequence or stream of characters that comprise both data characters and markups. Markups are syntactically delimited characters such as etc. added to the data characters to define the document s structure. Markups thus have special meanings and may represent such things as hypertext news mail documentation menus of options and in line graphics. Markups may be combined with other characters or related values to create codes that also have special meaning. Data characters are those characters in the document that are not codes.

As indicated by the brief description HTML documents have a well defined and documented structure defined by a grammar. The codes in a HTML document convey important information regarding both the display or presentation of the document itself as well as related references and commands. Display and presentation information may include color information information about graphics that appear on the page information about text that appears on the page etc. A HTML document is structured as a series of elements that are identified by the language markups and codes. A document includes a head consisting of a title and other optional elements and a body that is a text flow of paragraphs lists images and other elements. The various parts of the document may be identified by looking at the markups or codes in the document. For example referring again to which show the hypertext for the document head contains the title NLT Home . An image contained in the document is identified in the line

As may be apparent the process of translating a HTML document requires examination of each character in document. Characters may be examined individually and in combination to determine whether they are markups codes or data characters. To process a document the processing software examines the character stream that comprises the document. The steps needed to translate a HTML document from one language to another may be summarized as follows 

Step 1. Preprocess the HTML document by placing boundary markers around HTML codes to be preserved during the translation process. The translation software recognizes the boundary markers and does not translate text and symbols appearing between the markers.

Step 1. The codes in a HTML document convey important information describing the characteristics of the Web page. Referring again to an example of the type of information contained in a hypertext document is shown. Certain information contained in the document of may be interpreted by a Web browser so that to the browser user the images shown in appear. Certain information in the hypertext document is preserved during the translation process so that the translated page has in general the same appearance and behavior as the original page. Because HTML documents have a well defined and known structure described by a grammar automated translation of a HTML document is possible. The codes in the document may be discerned by the preprocessing software. Special boundary markers placed in the document by the preprocessing software indicate to the translation software that the intervening text should not be translated. Consequently the resulting page may have the same appearance and behavior as the original page.

Referring to an example of a preprocessed HTML document is shown. The HTML document of is the preprocessed version of the HTML document shown in . In this example the boundary markers used to identify the HTML codes are the character pairs . and . . Any character or character combination that does not normally occur in text may be used as a boundary marker. The line that appeared as NLT Home in is preprocessed in Step 1 to the line ....NLT Home.... in . Other lines in the document are preprocessed similarly.

Step 2. Machine Translation MT software performs the translation of text from one language to another language. There are many commercially available MT software packages. is an illustration of a system in which MT software takes as input text in one language and generates a rough draft translation of the text in another language using an electronic dictionary and a set of linguistic and or statistical rules encoded in the program . MT software can perform language conversion operations very quickly in some cases at speeds of up to 3 000 words per minute. The translated texts are not high quality translations but they are usually adequate for understanding what the document is about.

Referring to an example of a translated HTML document is shown. The HTML document of is the translated version of the preprocessed HTML document shown in . As described above the boundary markers used to identify the HTML codes are the character pairs . and . . Consequently the MT software ignores all text that falls between the boundary markers. Data characters that are not surrounded by boundary markers are translated by the MT software. The preprocessed line that appeared as ....NLT Home.... in is translated in Step 2 to the line ....NLT Maison.... in .

Step 3. In the final step postprocessing software removes boundary markers from the translated document. Referring to an example of a postprocessed HTML document is shown. The HTML document of is the postprocessed version of the translated HTML document shown in . As described above the boundary markers used to identify the HTML codes are the character pairs . and . . During postprocessing these boundary markers are removed. The translated line that appeared as ....NLT Maison.... in is postprocessed in Step 3 to the line NLT Maison in . The postprocessed HTML document of may then be displayed by the browser as shown in .

Although a document may be translated at the time that a user requests access to the document a document may also be pre translated and stored in a cache for later retrieval before a user seeks access to it. Documents that have been accessed at least once may also be stored following translation. The advantage of storing documents that have been translated is that delivery time to the user may be reduced. Although storing documents requires disk space it may represent a better use of system resources because documents that are accessed frequently are translated once rather than every time they are accessed.

In accessing the system a user sends to the Web Server a request for a specific page in a specific language . The Web Server then sends a request to get the desired page . The method for servicing the request depends on where the page is located. If the page has been pre translated and stored in the cache of pages in multiple languages it is retrieved from the cache and returned to the user in the requested language . If the page has not been pre translated then the page is retrieved from the World Wide Web translated into the requested language and cached before being sent to the user .

Translation of Web pages in either the bundled browser MT configuration or the Web Server configuration requires processing of HTML codes containing reference command and display information. Preferably the HTML codes are identified prior to translation then surrounded by special boundary markers to block the translation process on the codes. The HTML preprocessor uses its knowledge regarding the markups codes data characters and the structure of HTML documents to determine which codes should be blocked from the translation process. After translation is complete a postprocessing program removes the special boundary markers so that the necessary references commands and display characteristics are available in the translated text.

The primary objective of the present invention is to allow a user of the Internet to read hypertext documents that are available only in a language foreign to the user. The readable text of the hypertext document is changed in accordance with the user s preferred language. Steps are taken to preserve the document s appearance and behavior so that the only noticeable difference between the original document and the translated document is the language of the text. Users may interact with the translated document and reference related documents in the same manner that users interact with the original document.

