---

title: Infrastructure for interactive television applications
abstract: Methods and apparatuses for selectively displaying a video program are disclosed. A system for selectively displaying a video program in accordance with the present invention comprises a transmission station, including a server for attaching information to the video program, a plurality of satellites receiving at least an uplink signal which includes the information and the video program from the transmission station and producing a downlink signal based on the uplink signal, an antenna, the antenna receiving the downlink signal, and at least one receiver, coupled to the antenna, for receiving the downlink signal and interpreting the information in the downlink signal, wherein the at least one receiver selectively displays the video program based on at least the interpreted information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08782719&OS=08782719&RS=08782719
owner: The DIRECTV Group, Inc.
number: 08782719
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070515
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 589 612 filed Oct. 30 2006 now abandoned entitled Infrastructure For Interactive Television Applications . This application is related to and claims the benefit of the earlier filing date under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 731 140 filed Oct. 28 2005 entitled Infrastructure for Interactive Television Applications the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to communication systems and more particularly to an infrastructure for interactive television applications.

Television broadcasting system includes transmission station uplink dish satellite and receiver stations A C collectively referred to as receiver stations . Transmission station includes a plurality of input lines for receiving various signals such as analog television signals digital television signals video tape signals original programming signals and computer generated signals containing HTML content. Additionally input lines receive signals from digital video servers having hard discs or other digital storage media. Transmission station also includes a plurality of schedule feeds which provide electronic schedule information about the timing and content of various television channels such as that found in television schedules contained in newspapers and television guides. Transmission station converts the data from schedule feeds into program guide data. Program guide data may also be manually entered at the site of transmission station . The program guide data consists of a plurality of objects . The program guide data objects include data for constructing an electronic program guide that is ultimately displayed on a user s television.

Transmission station receives and processes the various input signals received on input lines and schedule feeds converts the received signals into a standard form combines the standard signals into a single output data stream and continuously sends output data stream to uplink dish . Output data stream is a digital data stream that is compressed using MPEG2 encoding although other compression schemes may be used.

The digital data in output data stream are divided into a plurality of packets with each such packet marked with a service channel identification SCID number. The SCIDs are later used by receiver shown in to identify the packets that correspond to each television channel. Error correction data is also included in output data stream .

Output data stream is a multiplexed signal that is modulated by transmission station using standard frequency and polarization modulation techniques. Output data stream preferably includes frequency bands with each frequency band being either left polarized or right polarized. Alternatively vertical and horizontal polarizations may be used.

Uplink dish continuously receives output data stream from transmission station amplifies the received signal and transmits the signal to satellite . Although a single uplink dish and satellite are shown in multiple dishes and satellites are preferably used to provide additional bandwidth and to help ensure continuous delivery of signals.

Satellites revolve in geosynchronous orbit about the earth. Satellites each include a plurality of transponders that receive signals transmitted by uplink dish amplify the received signals frequency shift the received signals to lower frequency bands and then transmit the amplified frequency shifted signals back to receiver stations .

Receiver stations receive and process the signals transmitted by satellites . Receiver stations are described in further detail below with respect to .

The CPU operates under control of an operating system stored in the memory or within an auxiliary memory within the CPU . The functions performed by CPU are controlled by one or more control programs or applications stored in memory . Operating system and applications are comprised of instructions which when read and executed by the CPU cause the receiver to perform the functions and steps necessary to implement and or use the present invention typically by accessing and manipulating data stored in the memory . Instructions implementing such applications are tangibly embodied in a computer readable medium such as the memory or the access card . The CPU may also communicate with other devices through interface or the receiver dish to accept commands or instructions to be stored in the memory thereby making a computer program product or article of manufacture according to the invention. As such the terms article of manufacture program storage device and computer program product as used herein are intended to encompass any application accessible by the CPU from any computer readable device or media.

Memory and access card store a variety of parameters for receiver such as a list of channels or services that the receiver is authorized to process and generate displays for the zip code and area code for the area in which receiver is used the model name or number of receiver a serial number of receiver a serial number of access card the name address and phone number of the owner of receiver and the name of the manufacturer of receiver .

Access card is removable from receiver as shown in . When inserted into receiver access card is coupled to access card interface which communicates via interface to a customer service center not pictured . Access card receives access authorization information from the customer service center based on a user s particular account information. In addition access card and the customer service center communicate regarding billing and ordering of services.

Clock provides the current local time to CPU . Interface is preferably coupled to a telephone jack at the site of receiver station . Interface allows receiver to communicate with transmission station via telephone lines. Interface may also be used to transfer data to and from a network such as the Internet.

The signals sent from receiver dish to tuner are a plurality of modulated rf signals. The desired rf signal is then downconverted to baseband by the tuner which also generates in phase and quadrature I and Q signals. These two signals are then passed to the demodulator forward error correction FEC application specific integrated circuit ASIC . The demodulator ASIC then demodulates the I and Q signals and the FEC decoder correctly identifies each transmitted symbol. The received symbols for quaternary phase shift keying QPSK or 8PSK signals carry two or three data bits respectively. The corrected symbols are translated into data bits which in turn are assembled in to payload data bytes and ultimately into data packets. The data packets may carry 130 data bytes or 188 bytes 187 data bytes and 1 sync byte .

In addition to the digital satellite signals received by receiver dish other sources of television content are also preferably used. For example alternate content source provides additional television content to television . Alternate content source is coupled to tuner . Alternate content source can be an antenna for receiving off the air signals NTSC signals a cable for receiving ATSC signals or other content source. Although only one alternate content source is shown multiple sources can be used.

Initially as data enters receiver tuner looks for a boot object. Boot objects are always transmitted with the same SCID so tuner knows that it must look for packets marked with that SCID. A boot object identifies the SCIDs where all other program guide objects can be found. The information from the boot object is used by tuner to identify packets of program guide data and route them to memory .

Remote control emits infrared signals that are received by infrared IR receiver in receiver . Other types of data entry devices may alternatively be used such as an ultra high frequency UHF remote control a keypad on receiver a remote keyboard and a remote mouse. When a user requests the display of a program guide by pressing the guide button on remote control a guide request signal is received by IR receiver shown in and transmitted to logic circuit . Logic circuit informs CPU of the guide request. In response to the guide request CPU causes memory to transfer a program guide digital image to D A converter . D A converter converts the program guide digital image into a standard analog television signal which is then transmitted to television . Television then displays the program guide. Television may alternatively be a digital television in which case no digital to analog conversion is necessary.

Users interact with the electronic program guide using remote control . Examples of user interactions include selecting a particular channel or requesting additional guide information. When a user selects a channel using remote control IR receiver relays the user s selection to logic circuit which then passes the selection on to memory where it is accessed by CPU . CPU instructs tuner to output the audio and video packets for the selected channel to D A converter . D A converter performs an MPEG2 decoding step on received packets converts the packets to analog signals and outputs the analog signals to television .

Recently broadcasting system has begun transmitting interactive services and channels to receiver stations . This new layer of interactivity creates new challenges and issues to be resolved in system such as how the interactive commands are sent and used within system . It can be seen then that there is a need in the art to allow for control and management of interactive services in a broadcasting system.

To minimize the limitations in the prior art and to minimize other limitations that will become apparent upon reading and understanding the present specification the present invention discloses methods and apparatuses for selectively displaying satellite based television signals in communications systems. A method in accordance with the present invention comprises querying an Application Program Interface API with an application determining the status of at least one video program based on a result of the query and selectively displaying the at least one video program based on the status of the at least one video program.

Such a method further optionally includes setting a flag in the at least one video program the flag indicating that the at least one video program is to be displayed only after the status is determined the at least one video program being a mosaic channel comprising a plurality of viewer channels each viewer channel in the plurality of video channels having a separate status and each viewer channel in the plurality of video channels is selectively displayed based on the separate status the separate status being based on a service authorization or a geographical location of a receiver station and determining at least one interactive function of the at least one video program based on the status of the at least one video program.

An infrastructure within a satellite television signal delivery system for determining whether a video program is displayable on a television monitor in accordance with the present invention comprises a server coupled to a transmission station wherein the server attaches information to the video program and a receiver station including an Application Program Interface API coupled to the receiver station wherein the API determines the status of the video program based on the information attached to the video program wherein the receiver station selectively allows display of the video program based on the status of the video program.

Such an infrastructure further optionally includes the information attached to the video program indicating that the video program is to be displayed only after the status is determined the video program being a mosaic channel comprising a plurality of viewer channels each viewer channel in the plurality of video channels having a separate status and each viewer channel in the plurality of video channels is selectively displayed based on the separate status the separate status being based on a service authorization or a geographical location of a receiver station and determining at least one interactive function of the at least one video program based on the status of the at least one video program.

A system for selectively displaying a video program in accordance with the present invention comprises a transmission station including a server for attaching information to the video program a plurality of satellites receiving at least an uplink signal which includes the information and the video program from the transmission station and producing a downlink signal based on the uplink signal an antenna the antenna receiving the downlink signal and at least one receiver coupled to the antenna for receiving the downlink signal and interpreting the information in the downlink signal wherein the at least one receiver selectively displays the video program based on at least the interpreted information.

Such a system further optionally includes the information attached to the video program indicating that the video program is to be displayed only after a status of the video program is determined the video program being a mosaic channel comprising a plurality of viewer channels each viewer channel in the plurality of video channels having a separate status and each viewer channel in the plurality of video channels is selectively displayed based on the separate status the separate status being based on a service authorization or a geographical location of a receiver station and the receiver station determining at least one interactive function of the at least one video program based on the status of the at least one video program.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the present invention are inherent in the systems and methods claimed and disclosed or will be apparent from the following detailed description and attached drawings. The detailed description and attached drawings merely illustrate particular embodiments and implementations of the present invention however the present invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as a restriction on the present invention.

In the following description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which show by way of illustration several embodiments of the present invention. It is understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The present invention comprises an infrastructure for interactive applications enabling the interactive applications to access Conditional Access CA data and to cleanly share Receiver Station also known as an Integrated Receiver Decoder or IRD resources. This infrastructure allows a service provider to control these resources across multiple application developers without exposing complex CA interfaces.

The CA interface allows applications to query current authorizations make purchases and execute parental control tasks. Applications can query whether a particular channel or event is authorized. For example a sports mosaic can block a premium sports channel if a blackout applies or if the viewer is not entitled. Applications can directly purchase Pay Per Views and use them either to access TV content e.g. On Request content or to control access to parts of the application itself e.g. different games in a games portal. Interactive applications can enforce parental limits and request PIN entry to override a spending limit or parental rating for a given application or viewer channel.

Applications can query the following CA fields Smart Card ID Subscriber ID and ZIP code. ZIP code can be used for targeted advertisements or local weather. Interactive applications can use the Subscriber ID to identify the subscriber performing a transaction such as requesting a brochure or making a purchase.

The Is Subscriber Addressed feature enables an interactive application to determine whether the subscriber matches a combination of CA traits such as a given subscription and any one of a list of region bits. This mechanism isolates the interactive application author from the meaning of CA data and is therefore much easier to use.

Store and Forward S F allows an application to store data in the receiver station on NVRAM disk Digital Video Recorder DVR or Flash. Access to S F is controlled by an interactive application certificate including how much data space is allocated uniquely to this interactive application when that data expires and whether any other interactive applications can use it. The forwarding mechanism returns interactive application data to the head end as a background task. This means that the interactive application needn t be running when the data is forwarded. The data can be returned immediately every few days or upon head end command. S F manages issues such as call back randomization retries and permitted call back time windows. S F thereby would allow a voting application to spread responses over a period of time without peak loading.

Controlled Return Path ensures that only authorized receiver stations can access the signals in network . The Controlled Return Path uses the well known Radius CHAP protocol only after properly responding to a challenge using access card codes will the POP issue an IP address to the receiver station and allow the connection to be established.

Secure Return Path SRP is an additional layer of security encrypting all messages from the receiver station to the application server. SRP uses secrets stored in the access card in a Bi lateral Protocol . It does require decryption in the secure system environment and re encryption under TLS the industry standard security protocol used for commerce on the Internet for the hop to the application server.

Within transmission station a server is used to insert symbols and programming into uplink signals that are then transmitted to receiver stations . Server provides the proper programming to receiver stations which comprises an interactive application that interfaces with this programming.

Further interactive applications are registered at server via programming or other means as specific types of applications such as application prior applications where audio is muted and video is blacked out prior to the application being loaded and executed so when the programming is received at a receiver station the receiver station will be able to properly handle the application and video prior applications where video appears and audio is played before the application loads and executes.

For example and not by way of limitation a Purchase Information Packet PIP for an interactive Pay Per View PPV program such as a game is generated by interface and attached by server to input streams and as needed. This stream is then passed to interactive interface and transmitted on signal to receiver stations as shown in .

Prior to any viewing of the PPV program the receiver station will not show any video or play any audio until the PPV program is properly authorized by access card in the receiver station via the logic and other functions of the receiver station described herein. Once the PPV program is authorized video and audio are forwarded to the television monitor for viewing by a user.

Application Programming Interface API is used to intercept commands from remote control as well as any commands generated at the front panel of receiver station . API provides the interface for interactive applications that are demodulated by demod FEC that may need special handling. API provides a universal interface for programming providers to interface with various types of interactive programming without the need to disclose access card proprietary information.

Each interactive program needs different types of interfaces. For example and not by way of limitation a mosaic channel with several different video feeds being shown simultaneously may have one or more of the video feeds blacked out in certain geographic areas due to sports league rules regarding program viewing in certain areas. A broadcast of a home football game in Indianapolis for example where the game is not sold out in advance is not allowed under National Football League NFL broadcast rules. The receiver stations that are resident in the blacked out area need to be informed that any broadcast of the Indianapolis game must be blacked out not only on the viewer channel showing that game but also on any mosaic channel showing that game. The API provides the programming interface to receiver station which then prevents the game from being shown in those geographic areas.

The interactive application is registered as a certain type of application at the transmission station via server as described in . When received by the receiver station the application is demodulated and converted by demod FEC and D A . However before being allowed to pass to the television or recording device when the channel containing the interactive application is selected by remote control or by a front panel selection on receiver station API intercepts the command to tune to the interactive application and performs certain functions based on how the function was registered at transmission station and whether or not the specific receiver station is authorized to receive and display the given interactive application.

The API also allows the interactive application to determine whether a given receiver station is allowed to display the interactive application for other reasons e.g. parental control checking program ratings channel blocking etc. So for example if a receiver station is blocked from receiving specific channels either because the programming package purchased by the viewer does not allow viewing of that channel or by specific channel blocking by the user to prevent unwanted programming the API will determine that the given interactive application is or is not authorized to be passed to television or recording device . Further the API provides on television screen messages when portions of the interactive application have changed. For example when the PIP for a purchased game changes because time is running out on the game purchase or there is a special pricing available for that game for a given amount of time an on screen notification can be provided to inform the viewer of such changes. Other on screen notifications are also possible based on the situation and desires of programmers and the service provider.

Such on screen displays can also provide reason codes which give the viewer additional information as to the reason for the on screen display. For example if a viewer is trying to purchase an interactive PPV event but the PPV event requires the user to authorize a charge to a credit card or the user s account a Personalized Identification Number PIN may be required and the on screen display may ask for that PIN. If the PPV event rating exceeds the rating that is assigned to a given receiver station a different on screen display may state that the event cannot be displayed without increasing the programming rating for that receiver station . Interactive applications can be programmed with various types of on screen displays and these on screen displays can be selected by providing the programming to the interactive application at transmission station which is then demodulated at receiver station for use by API .

The interactive application when programmed and entered at transmission station must also be able to determine whether or not a given receiver station comprises API . Further if a given receiver station does comprise API there may be different versions of API to support various levels of programming and service and as such the interactive application must know which functions a given API does support so the interactive application will run on any version of receiver station without problems. To accomplish this some interactive applications may need to have programming that disables the interactive application entirely or disable portions of the interactive application depending on which receiver station is receiving the interactive application.

The API of the present invention also allows for receiver station via interactive applications to query the viewer for information. For example and not by way of limitation certain interactive applications such as mosaic channels described herein above cannot show certain programs in certain zip codes due to programming blackouts or other reasons. So when an interactive application is requested by a viewer either via remote control or the front panel of receiver station the API will ask the viewer to provide a zip code as an input on an on screen display to allow for the proper viewing of the games being shown on the requested mosaic channel. The zipcode provided can then be stored on access card or directly in memory for use on later interactive applications as needed.

The present invention also supports applications that may require communication between the application and the server . The present invention supports multiple callback phone numbers to be used in different scenarios.

For some callbacks known as synchronous callbacks because they occur during the execution of the application the application provides the phone number to the logic to be routed through interface . The application can also reference a known phone number from the access card or can reference a named parameter stored phone number in the memory from the verifier using instructions within the application if desired.

For asynchronous callbacks which do not have to occur during the execution of the application the application can use the default phone number from a S F schema or override that phone number if the certificate permits overriding the phone number. Again the application can provide the phone number to the logic and interface application can also reference a known phone number from the access card or can reference a named parameter stored phone number in the memory from the verifier using instructions within the application if desired.

Further the receiver station can have a default telephone number which can be a 1 800 number or another phone number as well as an additional set of user or service provider provided phone numbers. The application can use instructions to use this system phone number in any of the callback situations. When the system phone number is selected the present invention uses the provided numbers if they exist or uses the default 1 800 number. The number selected can be based on a specific instruction to use a local number the default 1 800 number or a predetermined hierarchy which can be overridden by the application if desired. The default 1 800 number can also be changed via the user or via downlink signals and replaced in the memory as needed.

If the receiver station is unable to complete the callback when first attempted the receiver station will continue to try to complete the callback until successful. The present invention also allows for a certain number of retries before reporting unsuccessful callback attempts to the user for manual intervention. The number of retries can be changed either by the service provider or the user as desired. Further the available phone numbers can be tried in sequence rather than trying a single number until the number of retries is exhausted.

The present invention also determines if the callback number is a proper number e.g. receives an answer from a computer modem or not and depending on the result amends the call attempt schema. For example and not by way of limitation if a call results in a non computer modem answer then that particular number will not be called again during the current call window for this callback by the receiver station . This number may also be disabled by the receiver station until a new list of local access numbers is received and stored in memory .

Results of callbacks are reported to the application so the application can properly address the results as needed. Receiver station also validates and updates as needed the phone list at the initiation of callbacks generated by the API and the application by requesting a new phone number list from server .

Interactive mosaic channel is shown as being displayed on television . Within interactive mosaic channel there are a number of video cells and a text box also referred to as an On Screen Display OSD . Optionally the interactive mosaic channel further comprises a cursor a background video graphic and a dynamic ticker .

The number of video cells can change based on the number of video cells desired. As the number of video cells increases of course there must be a reduction in the size of the video cells to ensure that the video cells can be differentiated on the television . As the number of video cells decreases the size of the video cells can increase since there is more space available on television to display video cells .

Further the placement of video cells text box background graphic and ticker is not limited to the positions on television as shown in . These elements and can be displayed anywhere on television without departing from the scope of the present invention.

As there are multiple video feeds e.g. one video feed for each video cell being presented each video cell as well as text box background video and possibly dynamic ticker have associated audio portions that can be played. Presenting more than one audio stream may be confusing to a viewer of television as such it is typical that only one audio stream of information is presented at a given time. Further each of the video feeds may also have closed captioning information associated with it and selection of a closed captioned presentation rather than an audio presentation can be performed if desired.

Video cells each typically contain a separate viewer channel of programming. Further each video cell contains other information that is presented within the video cell as described herein.

Channel indicator is shown within video cell to show the viewer the direct tune channel number for that video cell . For example video cell shown in shows a channel indicator displaying channel as the channel for that video information. When cursor is placed on or around that video cell as is shown in the audio or other associated data for that video cell can be presented to the viewer.

There also may be other related data for a given video cell that is of interest to a viewer. For example as shown in video cell the video feed content is a National Football League game. For other types of video feeds video cells may provide other types of information. For example in a hockey game possession of the puck by a given team does not necessarily indicate an advantage in the game or an impending score. However if one hockey team is on a power play or has a two person advantage visual clues can be given to indicate theses condition by changing color flashing or other graphical indication to the viewer such that the game condition is known by glancing at the mix channel in an overview fashion rather than paying attention to each video cell in detail to determine the progress of each video feed.

Text box contains textual information that is useful to the viewer and this information can change depending on the viewer s selection of interactive services as described herein. For example the text box can contain a generic statement about the genre of the interactive mosaic channel or statements directed to a selected video cell or information related to a selected video cell to describe to a user the meaning of the information presented in the video cell or other information related to the video cell . The text box can also scroll to present additional information to the viewer that does not all fit within text box at a given time.

There can also be default text associated with each interactive mosaic channel and depending on the capabilities of IRD each time an interactive mosaic channel is tuned to a default descriptive text shall be displayed in the text box .

Background video is typically a backdrop for the interactive mosaic channel . The background video can be related to the genre of the interactive mosaic channel for example in a news environment the background video can be related to a top news story the stock market exchange building a prominent government building etc. The background video can be changed or can be a dynamic video depending on the desires of the editorial staff or viewer preferences. Further the background video can be a logo or other indicator of the source of the interactive mosaic channel such as DIRECTV.

The dynamic ticker can be used to provide real time updates to the genre of the interactive mosaic channel . For example in a sports environment the dynamic ticker can provide updated scores or breaking news or act as an alert system as described herein. The dynamic ticker can also be used to present other information such as statistics closed captioning information or other information that can be related to the genre or to other issues. The dynamic ticker can also be updated with new information at a different rate than that of the video cells because the source of information that is used to create dynamic ticker comes from a different source than the information that is presented in video cells .

By selecting a given video cell the viewer is selecting a specific characteristic associated with that given video cell or associated video feed used to generate that video cell . In most instances when the viewer selects a given video cell via cursor the audio portion associated with the selected video cell will be presented to the viewer rather than a generic audio portion associated with interactive mosaic channel . Further selection of a given video cell with cursor may also select a closed captioning data stream associated with the selected video cell depending on the availability of such a data stream and or other settings that a viewer has selected. Cursor can be moved to any of the video cells and optionally can be moved to select text box or ticker .

When cursor is moved to a given video cell or to text box or ticker text box also may undergo a change in information. Typically when the video cell is selected by the viewer indicated by the presence of cursor text box will present the information in the Advanced Program Guide APG that is associated with the viewer channel indicated by channel indicator selected by cursor . The APG typically includes information on the program or show that is currently being presented by the viewer channel shown in video cell as well as the time that show is being aired and the next show to be aired on that viewer channel. Other information either in the APG or external to the APG can also be displayed in the text box when the cursor is moved to a given video cell . The text box can also remain static if desired.

As such the viewer can interact with the interactive mosaic channel and decide which audio track to listen to find out a plot line of each of the shows being presented in the various video cells or find out what is going to be aired next in the various viewer channels being presented in video cells while variously viewing the video presentations in the video cells . If a specific video cell presents video information that is of interest to a viewer then the viewer can move cursor via a remote control command to a given video cell .

If the viewer decides that the selected video cell is of enough interest the viewer can then directly tune to the selected video cell i.e. tune directly to that viewer channel that is providing the video and audio used to create video cell by pressing a single button on the remote control typically the select button on a DIRECTV remote control . This will tune the IRD or television to that viewer channel which will then be presented full screen to the viewer as in a normal television viewing format.

When a viewer arrives at a given interactive mosaic channel the position of cursor may default to the first video cell any given video cell or not be present at all. The viewer may have to press a button on the remote control to activate the cursor . Typically a viewer moves the cursor by using the up down left right keys on a remote control associated with the IRD but other methods can be used without departing from the scope of the present invention. Further if IRD is not enabled for any or enough interactive services the cursor functions may be disabled either entirely or partially depending on the capabilities of IRD .

There can also be the ability to record interactive mosaic channel which will allow a viewer to record what would be several viewer channels as a single viewer channel i.e. the recorded interactive mosaic channel . However a recorded version of interactive mosaic channel may act differently than a live feed interactive mosaic channel because the cursor functions may no longer be consistent with a recorded version of that video information. For example selection of a video cell in a live feed version would tune the IRD to the channel number associated with that video cell . When it is a recorded version selection of that video cell would not tune the IRD to the channel number but would likely present that recorded video information in a full television format with possible degradation of picture quality. The ability to record interactive mosaic channel may also be selectively disabled if desired.

Some of the interactive mosaic channels may because of the genre selected for that interactive mosaic channel or for other reasons may need to have the video cells changed from one viewer channel to another or to have video cells added or deleted from the presentation of the interactive mosaic channel on television . As such there must be a capability to change the presentation of any given interactive mosaic channel . The changes may be of a time sensitive nature such as changes in news or sporting events or a seasonal change such as additional viewer channels carrying an event such as the NCAA Basketball Tournament and thus would be seasonally included in an interactive mosaic channel presentation or of a programming nature where a viewer adds or deletes a viewer channel to their programming package and thus access to such a viewer channel is selectively allowed or denied. If such a viewer channel is being used to create a given interactive mosaic channel then the interactive mosaic channel must have the capability of adding that video feed for presentation on the monitor.

For example in a sports genre interactive mosaic channel it is typically known when a sporting event will start and which viewer channel the event will be carried on. So interactive mosaic channel can schedule the change to the video feed for that viewer channel as being shown on a video cell or change away from a viewer channel that is no longer carrying a sporting event based on a schedule or other set time frame events.

When such changes take place the service provider which can be DIRECTV or some other service provider can program the interactive mosaic channel to change the video presentation on channel . This can be done in a variety of ways either by selectively blacking out the video cells presenting a graphic on the video feed during the changes made to the video cells or other methods presented to the viewer in such a way that the video feeds used to create video cells are not visible. It may or may not be desirable to present information on the dynamic ticker that the viewer needs to wait during the change in programming. Once the interactive mosaic channel programming is completed the service provider would then send the video information that shows the new configuration of video cells new text box information etc. Other methods of performing the change in video presentation of viewer channels are also possible within the scope of the present invention.

The service provider and the viewer have the ability to black out or disable viewer channels and as such have the ability to black out or disable not only entire interactive mosaic channels but the individual video feeds that are associated with video cells that are presented within an interactive mosaic channel . Further users may have the ability to create their own interactive mosaic channel depending on the equipment capabilities of IRD television or other equipment that a specific viewer may have access to.

API of the present invention allows for proper interaction with a given interactive channel such as the mosaic channel shown in . For example and not by way of limitation API ensures that the video feeds used in video cells are authorized to be displayed on a given receiver station . As shown in video cell is displaying a game between the San Diego Chargers and the Oakland Raiders being played in Oakland. Such a game is blacked out in the San Francisco Bay Area unless the game is sold out seventy two hours before kickoff. So API would be programmed to have the video cells for this mosaic channel as an application prior interactive channel to allow the receiver station determine the entitlement status of each video cell within the mosaic channel prior to display on the television .

If the particular receiver station is in zip code 94101 which is in San Francisco Calif. the video feed used in video cell would be blacked out and API would provide a shutter or other blank video screen in video cell of that particular receiver station . On the other hand if the particular receiver station is located in zip code 90045 which is in Los Angeles Calif. the video feed used in video cell would not be blacked out and API would authorize that video feed to be displayed on television .

The API is queried by the interactive application associated with the mosaic channel to determine the status of each of the video feeds as well as the interactive features associated with cursor . When a viewer tunes the receiver station to the mosaic channel the interactive application associated with the mosaic channel interacts with the API to determine the functionality and display possibilities for each of the video cells as well as cursor usage and functions.

If the subscriber has not subscribed to the mosaic channel the interactive channel and the API may place an on screen message that asks the subscriber if they would like to subscribe to the mosaic channel and upon the subscriber s payment for the service the API would then allow viewing of those games that are not blacked out in the subscriber s geographic area. Further the API would provide cursor functions and dynamic ticker information to receiver station such that any command from the front panel of receiver station or from remote control would be properly interpreted by receiver station .

If the subscriber is authorized to receive and display the mosaic channel the mosaic channel is initially displayed with shutters or other blank video within the video cells because the status of the mosaic channel is Application Prior . API then queries the interactive application portion associated with the mosaic channel to check the Interactive Configuration Object ICO which contains the PIPs associated with each of the video cells to see which of the video cells can be displayed on television . Each of the PIPs associated with the video cells is queried and access card determines which if any of the video cells can be displayed. The PIPs associated with the video cells are typically queried in a serial fashion but can be queried in a parallel fashion if desired. As each PIP for each video cell is confirmed as authorized by access card the shutter or other blank video is removed from that video cell and is then displayed on the viewer s television .

Box represents selectively displaying the at least one video program based on the status of the at least one video program.

In summary the present invention comprises methods and apparatuses for selectively displaying satellite based television signals in communications systems. A method in accordance with the present invention comprises querying an Application Program Interface API with an application determining the status of at least one video program based on a result of the query and selectively displaying the at least one video program based on the status of the at least one video program.

Such a method further optionally includes setting a flag in the at least one video program the flag indicating that the at least one video program is to be displayed only after the status is determined the at least one video program being a mosaic channel comprising a plurality of viewer channels each viewer channel in the plurality of video channels having a separate status and each viewer channel in the plurality of video channels is selectively displayed based on the separate status the separate status being based on a service authorization or a geographical location of a receiver station and determining at least one interactive function of the at least one video program based on the status of the at least one video program.

An infrastructure within a satellite television signal delivery system for determining whether a video program is displayable on a television monitor in accordance with the present invention comprises a server coupled to a transmission station wherein the server attaches information to the video program and a receiver station including an Application Program Interface API coupled to the receiver station wherein the API determines the status of the video program based on the information attached to the video program wherein the receiver station selectively allows display of the video program based on the status of the video program.

Such an infrastructure further optionally includes the information attached to the video program indicating that the video program is to be displayed only after the status is determined the video program being a mosaic channel comprising a plurality of viewer channels each viewer channel in the plurality of video channels having a separate status and each viewer channel in the plurality of video channels is selectively displayed based on the separate status the separate status being based on a service authorization or a geographical location of a receiver station and determining at least one interactive function of the at least one video program based on the status of the at least one video program.

A system for selectively displaying a video program in accordance with the present invention comprises a transmission station including a server for attaching information to the video program a plurality of satellites receiving at least an uplink signal which includes the information and the video program from the transmission station and producing a downlink signal based on the uplink signal an antenna the antenna receiving the downlink signal and at least one receiver coupled to the antenna for receiving the downlink signal and interpreting the information in the downlink signal wherein the at least one receiver selectively displays the video program based on at least the interpreted information.

Such a system further optionally includes the information attached to the video program indicating that the video program is to be displayed only after a status of the video program is determined the video program being a mosaic channel comprising a plurality of viewer channels each viewer channel in the plurality of video channels having a separate status and each viewer channel in the plurality of video channels is selectively displayed based on the separate status the separate status being based on a service authorization or a geographical location of a receiver station and the receiver station determining at least one interactive function of the at least one video program based on the status of the at least one video program.

It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto and the equivalents thereof. The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the invention. Since many embodiments of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended and the equivalents thereof.

