---

title: Method of dynamically updating media play effects utilized on a digital photo slide show
abstract: Before playing a digital photo slide show, both required digital photos and a guiding program are burnt on an optical disc in advance. While the disc is loaded into an optical disc play device, the guiding program triggers the optical disc play device to connect with an external network for updating media play effect packages, which are related to the digital photos, and for storing the updated media play effect packages in a preserved database of said optical disc play device. Then a corresponding digital photo slide show is dynamically generated and played according to both the updated media play effect packages, which are stored in the preserved database, and the digital photos burnt on the optical disc.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07701824&OS=07701824&RS=07701824
owner: CyberLink Corp.
number: 07701824
owner_city: Hsin-Tien, Tapei Hsien
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20070510
---
The present invention relates to a method for updating a digital photo slide show and more particularly to a method of dynamically updating media play effect packages utilized on a digital photo slide show.

In a big party such as a wedding party photos related to the party are collected for being burning on conventional digital versatile discs DVD and for sharing the collected photos with people who joined or did not join the party. Digital photos are popular means for recording such a party and for sharing the procedure of the party with people who joined or did not join the party. Conventionally a plurality of digital photos taken at the party is collected after the party was over and a digital photo slide show is generated from the collected plurality of digital photos and is burnt into digital versatile discs for sharing with people who joined or did not join the party. However there are problems in such conventional means. For example after sharing digital versatile discs burnt with an original digital photo slide show with people who joined or did not join the party if there is an updated version of the digital photo slide show such as increasing or decreasing i.e. updating media play effect packages utilized on the original digital photo slide show an original plurality of digital photos for generating the original digital photo slide show has to be retrieved first and the updated media play effect packages have to be applied on the retrieved original plurality of media play effect packages so that an updated digital photo slide show can be encoded and generated. The abovementioned circumstance is much unbeneficial for sharing and management of the plurality of digital photos after the original digital photo slide show is burnt into each shared digital versatile discs. Moreover since data burnt into an optical disc are conventionally unable to be updated it is also unbeneficial for a user who retrieves updated media play effect packages from external websites in management and sharing of digital photos having been burnt on an optical disc.

The claimed invention discloses a method of dynamically updating media play effects utilized on a digital photo slide show. The disclosed method comprises copying a plurality of digital photos and a guiding program into an optical disc triggering a player program installed on a optical disc play device with the guiding program when the optical disc is loaded into the optical disc play device updating media play effect packages related to the plurality of digital photos with a network and storing the updated media play effect packages into a preserved database of the optical disc play device and loading the plurality of digital photos with the player program and dynamically generating a digital photo slide show according to the updated media play effect packages.

These and other objectives of the present invention will no doubt become obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art after reading the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment that is illustrated in the various figures and drawings.

Therefore a method of dynamically updating media play effect packages utilized on a digital photo slide show is provided in the present invention for solving the abovementioned problems.

Please refer to which is a flowchart of the method of dynamically updating media play effect packages utilized on a digital photo slide show in the present invention. The method illustrated in includes steps as follows 

Step Triggering a player program installed on an optical disc play device by the guiding program when the optical disc is loaded into the optical disc play device.

Step Updating media play effect packages through a network and storing the updated media play effect packages in a preserved database of the optical disc play device.

Step Loading the plurality of digital photos through the play player program and dynamically generating a digital photo slide show according to the updated media play effect packages.

Note that the optical disc mentioned in steps illustrated in primarily indicates next generation optical discs such as the Blu ray disc and the high definition digital versatile disc HD DVD . However the method of the present invention may also be applied on other types of optical discs even on optical discs that have not been invented. Therefore replacing the type of the applied optical disc in the method of the present invention should not be limitations to the method of the present invention.

In Step and Step merely an original plurality of digital photos and a guiding program are burnt into an optical disc. Moreover optional media play effect packages may also be burnt into the optical disc in advance for preventing the problem resulted from the fact that additional storage of the optical disc is wasted by burning both the original plurality of digital photos and the digital photo slide show into the optical disc in the prior art.

In Step the network for updating and downloading media play effect packages may be implemented with server websites or peer to peer P2P software. Besides there is space preserved for updated media play effect packages in the optical disc play device. It indicates the fact that media play effect packages updated corresponding to digital photos burnt into the optical disc may be stored on a preserved database of the optical disc play device. Note that the preserved database may be implemented with high speed cache or a hard drive. If there are media play effect packages originally burnt into the optical disc in advance the updated media play effect packages are integrated with the original media play effect packages burnt into the optical disc. Moreover the plurality of digital photos are loaded with the player program before a digital photo slide show is played so that the digital photo slide show is dynamically generated according to all the integrated media play effect packages.

Please refer to and please refer to together. is a simplified block diagram of generating the digital photo slide show after the optical disc is loaded into the optical disc play device from Step to Step described in . As illustrated in when an optical disc is loaded into the optical disc play device a guiding program burnt on the optical disc triggers a player program installed on the optical disc play device and an address for updating media play effect packages is transmitted to the player program . Besides both the guiding program and a digital photo group some media play effect packages which are not illustrated on may be burnt into the optical disc in advance. Note that the optical disc play device is assumed to acquire functions of exchanging messages or data with external sites where the acquired functions include downloading updated media play effect packages from a specific website of an external network and the updated media play effect packages include sound packages background packages and transition effect packages. In Step the player program connects with a specific website on an external network with the address transmitted from the optical disc for downloading updated media play effect packages on the specific website. The updated media play effect packages are then stored in a preserved database of the optical play device where the database may be implemented with high speed cache or a hard drive. Note that the way that the player program connects with the specific website may be implemented with peer to peer P2P software.

Note that in a preferred embodiment of the present invention the player program is driven by the Java virtual machine. The media play effect packages may also be written based on Java Xlets Java Script or Markup language i.e. the media play effect packages may be generated by classifications of the application programming interface API of the Java language. In Step a plurality of digital photos of the digital photo group is loaded with the player program and a digital photo slide show is dynamically generated according to the updated media play effect packages stored in the database . Note that the updated media play effect packages are integrated with media play effect packages originally burnt on the optical disc . When the optical disc is not previously burnt with media play effect packages the updated media play effect packages stored in the database are directly utilized for generating the digital photo slide show .

A user may choose and load a plurality of digital photos from the digital photo group with both a user interface equipped on the optical disc play device and the player program . Moreover the user may choose a required plurality of updated media play effect packages stored in the database with the same user interface and the digital photo slide show may thus be generated and played. The abovementioned circumstance is well known by those who skilled in the art and is not further described.

Note that the preserved database does not store any media play effect packages until the updated media play effect packages are downloaded and stored i.e. the database is merely preserved for temporary storage. Moreover after the media play effect packages are downloaded and stored in the database and then the digital photo slide show is generated for example after the optical disc is ejected from the optical disc play device the media play effect packages stored in the database are immediately deleted from the database for releasing storage of the database so that when another optical disc is loaded into the optical disc play device the released storage of the database may be reused for storing other updated media play effect packages .

With the aid of the method illustrated in and i.e. the method of dynamically updating media play effect packages utilized on a digital photo slide show of the present invention an updated digital photo slide show having updated media play effect packages downloaded from an external network may be directly generated with an optical disc play device which is able to connect with the external network so that original digital photos do not have to be retrieved again and data burnt into the optical disc do not have to be updated either. Therefore by arbitrarily downloading and storing updated media play effect packages which are related to digital photos on the optical disc in the preserved database of the optical disc play device an updated digital photo slide show having updated media play effect packages can be dynamically generated and it is no longer necessary to watch the updated digital photo slide show by retrieving another optical disc having updated media play effect packages. Moreover since it is not necessary to burn media play effect packages into the optical disc the storage of the optical disc for storing digital photos is increased and the problem that storage of the optical disc is wasted by storing media play effect packages in the prior art is thus prevented.

Those skilled in the art will readily observe that numerous modifications and alterations of the device and method may be made while retaining the teachings of the invention. Accordingly the above disclosure should be construed as limited only by the metes and bounds of the appended claims.

