---

title: Method and apparatus for facilitating telecommunication network selection
abstract: A method, apparatus, and computer usable program product for facilitating a selection of a telecommunication network are provided. A request for a type of network associated with a called identifier is received from a calling communication device. A repository of information about caller identifiers is searched. Information corresponding to the called identifier is selected. The selected information includes the type of network associated with the called identifier. The selected information is returned to the calling communication device. The information in the repository is updated by adding information about new caller identifiers, updating information about the several caller identifiers existing in the repository, or both.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08559415&OS=08559415&RS=08559415
owner: CenturyLink Intellectual Property LLC
number: 08559415
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070928
---
The principles of the present invention relate generally to an improved telecommunication system and in particular to using networks for telecommunication. Still more particularly the principles of the present invention relate to a method apparatus and computer usable program product for facilitating a telecommunication network selection.

Telecommunication involves two or more communication devices communicating with each other using a communication network. For example two telephones may be able to communicate with each other using a telecommunication network called public switched telephone network PSTN . PSTN is primarily a voice telecommunication network for enabling telephone based telecommunication between two or more parties.

A caller telephone or a calling telephone is a telephone from which a voice call is placed. A called telephone is a telephone on which a voice call is received. A caller party or a calling party is an individual or a party who places a voice call. A called party is an individual or party who receives a voice call. A caller number or a calling number is a telephone number from which a voice call is placed. A called number is a telephone number on which a voice call is received. A called number is also called a called telephone number .

Similarly a caller communication device or a calling communication device is a communication device from which a telecommunication call is placed and a called communication device is a communication device on which a telecommunication call is received. The term communication devices refers to the collection of all devices used for telecommunication. For example a communication device can be the familiar telephone a computer with a telecommunication enabling software application a telephone like device that works over data networks instead of plain old telephone system POTS line a wireless or cellular phone or any other device used for telecommunication. A communication device is any one of these communication devices. Communication devices may also include devices and applications capable of communicating in other ways for example by text messaging instant messaging including text audio video images and documents.

VOIP is a telecommunication method for transmitting voice communications over a data network such as the Internet. Common VOIP implementations are in telephony where telephone conversations are partly carried over the Internet from a caller telephone to a called telephone. A VOIP call is a voice call connected using VOIP technology. VOIP data is the data that represents the voice signals in a voice call that is connected through VOIP systems.

Data networks are broadly categorized into two categories local area network LAN and wide area network WAN . A LAN is a data network that connects a few data processing systems generally within a home or an office. A WAN is a data network that connects several LANs and data processing systems together generally across cities countries and continents. The Internet is an example of a WAN whereas a home networking is an example of a LAN.

Various communication devices are capable of communicating with each other using a variety of networks. Some communication devices are able to communicate over PSTN other communication devices communicate over wired or wireless LANs and WANs such as a VOIP enabled telephone. Presently a communication device capable of communicating on one type of network may be able to communicate with another communication device capable of communicating on another type of network by using intermediate data processing systems for connecting the communication devices operating on dissimilar networks. These intermediate data processing systems are commonly known as gateways and they bridge different types of networks in the path from a caller communication device to a called communication device.

To reduce the cost and complexity of network based gateways and data processing presently needed for connecting calls originating and terminating on different types of networks the illustrative embodiments provide a method system and computer usable program product for facilitating a selection of a telecommunication network. In one embodiment a request for a type of network associated with a called identifier is received from a calling communication device. A repository of information about caller identifiers is searched. Information corresponding to the called identifier is selected to form selected information. The selected information may include network information such as a type of network associated with the called identifier. The selected information is returned to the calling communication device in response to the request.

In another embodiment the calling communication device a user associated with the calling communication device or both may be authenticated. Searching the repository selecting the selected information and returning the selected information is performed if the authenticating is successful. The authentication uses authenticating information about several users and several communication devices capable of sending the request. The authenticating information may also be managed in the repository.

In another embodiment a cache may also be searched in addition to or instead of searching the repository. When a cache is present and information in the cache is present a determination is made as to whether the called identifier in the request is available in the cache. If the called identifier in the request is available in the cache the information corresponding to the called identifier in the cache is selected and returned.

In another embodiment the selected information may further include a qualifier indicating a type of a telecommunication use such as voice use fax use or data use associated with the type of the network. In another embodiment the request for the type of network associated with the called identifier may be a request for several types of networks associated with the called identifier. In another embodiment the request for the several types of networks associated with the called identifier may be a request for the several types of networks associated with each of several called identifiers. The called identifier may be a called telephone number.

In another embodiment of a method system and computer usable program product for facilitating a selection of a telecommunication network information about several called identifiers is managed in a repository. The information about a called identifier includes a type of network that enables telecommunication using the called identifier. The information about the called identifier may be sent to a calling communication device such that a call from the calling communication device to the called identifier is placed using the network information such as a type of network identified in the information. The information in the repository is updated by adding information about new called identifiers updating information about the several called identifiers existing in the repository or both.

In another embodiment the updating may be done using data received from a source without requesting the data using data received from the source in response to a request for the data or both. Receiving the data from the source in response to the request includes selecting the source from a source list constructing the request for the data such that the request is constructed in accordance with a specification acceptable to the selected source sending the request to the selected source and receiving in response to the request the data from the source. The received data may be processed such that the processed data is configured in accordance with a specification of the repository.

In another embodiment the information about the caller identifier may include several types of networks. Additionally the information about the called identifier may further include several qualifiers each qualifier associated with a corresponding type of network and each qualifier indicating a type of a telecommunication use such as voice use fax use or data use associated with the corresponding type of the network. The called identifier may be a called telephone number.

The present disclosure incorporates simultaneously filed application Ser. No. 11 904 698 filed on Sep. 28 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Communication networks or simply networks have several types of information associated with them. Such information pertaining to a network is called network information. Network information may include a type of the network such as telephone network of PSTN type and data network capable of VOIP services. Other network information may be the protocol supported on the network speed of the network operating times of the network authentication requirements of the network and any other information that is useful in describing a characteristic of the network.

Presently communication devices that can connect to more than one networks are available. For example a telephone that can connect to PSTN as well as VOIP networks are currently available. However a user using such a communication device determines which network to use when making a call. For example a user may set the telephone to use VOIP network for voice communications and PSTN for fax calls.

Furthermore when a call is made from a communication device on one network to a called communication device on another network present systems employ a series of gateways and other data processing systems to connect calls on dissimilar networks. For example a VOIP call originating from a VOIP enabled telephone and terminating at a PSTN called telephone goes through a series of gateways that bridge the VOIP network and PSTN.

Illustrative embodiments recognize that these gateways and the data processing performed by these gateways are expensive time consuming and complex systems. The illustrative embodiments further recognize that calls originating and terminating on the same type of network are much more efficient and easier to manage as compared to calls originating and terminating on different types of networks.

Therefore the illustrative embodiments recognize that information about the network supporting a called communication device can be provided to communication devices that are capable of connecting to more than one network as described below. Based on this provided information a caller communication device may select a network such that the caller communication device and the called communication device may communicate on the same or similar networks. For example a server may provide the information that a called telephone is capable of communicating on PSTN. Receiving this information from the server as described below a caller telephone capable of connecting to a VOIP network and PSTN may select PSTN to match the network that a called telephone may be using. Selecting a network in this exemplary manner may reduce network resources used for the communication.

As another example the server may provide information that a called number is supported on a VOIP network. A cellular phone capable of connecting to cellular network as well as VOIP network may receive and use this information to select the VOIP network to match the type of network supporting the called number. Many other combinations and configurations will become apparent from the description of the illustrative embodiments provided below.

With reference to the figures and in particular with reference to exemplary diagrams of data processing environments are provided in which illustrative embodiments may be implemented. is not intended to assert or imply any limitation with regard to the environments in which different embodiments may be implemented. Many modifications to the depicted environments may be made.

A VOIP adapter not shown is an electronic device that can connect to phone and convert the voice signals to and from phone into data that can be processed for connecting a VOIP call. In one embodiment phone and VOIP adapter may be combined into one integrated device forming phone .

A VOIP system is representative of the entire VOIP system that a VOIP provider uses for providing VOIP services. VOIP system may include a VOIP gateway and many other equipments all of which together enable a VOIP provider to provide VOIP services. Phone communicates with VOIP system over a data network . Data network is a VOIP network as described above. An example of data network is the Internet.

For completing VOIP calls such as a VOIP call originating from phone VOIP system communicates with providers of regular telephone services such as PSTN providers as well as other VOIP providers. depicts VOIP system in communication with a PSTN provider s PSTN system . VOIP system may communicate with PSTN system using a dedicated communication link or using Public data network . PSTN provider s system uses a PSTN network for completing the call that originated as a VOIP call from phone to a phone . Phone is also a communication device as described above with respect to phone . A dedicated communication link such as dedicated communication link is a telecommunication link configured for enabling communication only between predetermined parties.

Likewise a call originating from phone can be completed at phone by traversing VOIP system in order from phone to phone . depicts only schematic components involved in telecommunication system . Several other components devices systems and interconnects may be present in a typical VOIP system but are not shown in for clarity of the description.

With reference to this figure depicts a block diagram of a system for providing information for selecting a communication network in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. System may be implemented using telecommunication system in . Phone may be implemented using phone in .

Phone includes network selection application . Phone may communicate with VOIP system over data network in the manner described above with respect to . Phone may also communicate with PSTN system over PSTN as described above with respect to . Other phones may also communicate with data network PSTN or both. For example VOIP enabled phone is shown as being in communication with data network whereas PSTN phone is shown to be in communication with PSTN . Phone may call phones and and other similarly situated phones.

Network selection application interacts with server over data network . Server is a data processing system and includes database to which the interaction is directed. This interaction helps in the selection of either data network or PSTN for making a call from phone . The manner of network selection application s interaction with database and the manner of selection of network for communication between phone and exemplary phones and is described in detail in the description of subsequent figures below. A detailed description of server and components thereof is also provided in the description of subsequent figures below.

With reference to this figure depicts a block diagram of a network selection system in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Network selection system includes network selection application which may be implemented using network selection application in .

Network selection application uses data communication component for communicating with data network . Data network may be implemented using data network in . Network selection application includes query construction component response analysis component network selection component local database and user interface .

Network selection system includes database which may be implemented using database in server in . Server is accessible over data network . Database is a repository for data and may take the form of a relational database an object oriented database an index file a flat file or any other form suitable for storing data. The illustrative embodiments describe database as a database of some kind only as exemplary without limiting the illustrative embodiments to databases.

Database is a remote database. A remote databases is a database that is accessed over a data network. Database includes query receiving component data response construction component and optional authentication component . Database uses data communication component for communicating with data network . Database may further have a specification such as a schema a data definition or other similar data specification for storing data therein.

When a user dials a called number on a caller phone such as phone in network selection application receives the called number. Using the called number query construction component constructs a query for database to determine a network information about a network such as a type of network on which the called number operates. A query is a request for information. Note that the user may be a human user of the caller phone or an application such as a software application making a call.

In one embodiment before constructing a query for database query construction component may query local database . Local database may include information similar to the information provided by database but for certain called numbers that are called frequently or are provided by the user of the caller phone. Local database may also learn and store the learned information for future use from the results of previous queries sent to database .

By querying local database first querying database may be avoided if information about the called number is present in local database . Avoiding querying database may reduce the total time needed for connecting the call in accordance with the illustrative embodiment as queries to local databases are generally faster than queries to remote databases.

In another embodiment both databases local database and remote database may be queried. As an example an implementation of the illustrative embodiment may choose to query both databases for verifying the accuracy of the information in either database or for updating the information in either database.

Another embodiment may query the remote database database before querying the local database . As an example this order of querying may be useful if the local database is non responsive for any reason. Continuing with the description of components of network selection application response analysis component receives and analyzes the response to the query sent by query construction component . The response may be a response to a query sent to local database or a response to a query sent to database . Response from database may be received using data communication component .

By analyzing the response response analysis component identifies a network that may be used for connecting the call to the called number. Network connection component may use the identified network and completes the call to the called number on the identified network.

In some circumstances the identified network may not be acceptable to the user originating the call. In such circumstances the user may wish to override the selection of the identified network and select a different network for completing the call. User interface provides the user the capability for specifying the overriding instructions for example for specifying which network to use instead of the identified network.

User interface may take any form suitable for the communication device being used for making the call. For example when the communication device is a telephone user interface may be the keypad of the telephone. As another example when the communication device is a softphone user interface may be a graphical user interface displayed on a computer monitor. User interface may also be simply a function an application programming interface API or an equivalent thereof which can be called by an application placing the call or network selection application such as in the case when a call fails on the identified network and an alternate network has to be selected. Many other ways of implementing user interface will become apparent from this disclosure.

When a query is sent to database network selection application uses data communication component for communicating with database over data network . Similarly database uses data communication component for communicating with data network . Database receives a query sent to database through data communication component using query receiving component . Query receiving component may perform other functions in addition to receiving the query. For example query receiving component may perform pre processing of the query such as optimizing the query reforming the query scheduling the query for execution and logging the query. Many other query pre processing functions will be conceivable from the description of the illustrative embodiment.

Furthermore query receiving component may authenticate the user and or the communication device that sent the query. For authenticating query receiving component may use authentication component .

In one embodiment authentication may be an optional function and authentication component may be an optional component. In another embodiment authentication may be a task external to database and authentication component may be external to database . In yet another embodiment authentication may be an implicit function of query receiving component and authentication component may be merged with query receiving component . Many other configurations are conceivable from this description of the illustrative embodiment.

Once a query is received and optionally pre processed and optional authentication performed the query is submitted for searching data . Data includes at least a listing of several phone numbers and their corresponding networks. For example data may include a telephone number 212 555 1212 and an indication that the telephone number operates on PSTN and a telephone number 212 555 1313 and an indication that the telephone number operates on VOIP network.

Data may include many other pieces of information or attributes about the telephone numbers or users stored therein. For example data may include not only telephone numbers but wireless numbers user identifier user ID short message service SMS numbers instant messaging IM identifiers email addresses Internet protocol IP addresses street addresses global positioning system GPS locations device capabilities and other similar attributes associated with a caller called party and a caller called communication device. Furthermore data and database as a whole may be distributed across several data processing systems organized and interconnected with each other in some logical fashion.

In one embodiment the telephone number itself may provide an indication of the network on which a communication device associated with that telephone number is supported. For example a telephone number having a particular area code may be indicative of a particular carrier s network and the network s type by implication such as PSTN. In another embodiment another type of identifier such as a user ID may indicate the type of network supporting the called communication device. For example a call to a user ID instead of a conventional telephone number may indicate that the called communication device is supported on a data network such as a VOIP network. Similarly other identifiers for a called party may indicate the type of network supporting a called communication device and are contemplated within the scope of the illustrative embodiments. Any identifier including the examples provided above that identifies a called party is called a called identifier. Similarly any identifier including the examples provided above that identifies a calling party is called a calling identifier.

Once the query is executed against data response construction component prepares the result of the query in a form that may be acceptable to network selection application . The prepared response is then sent from database to network selection application over data network using data communication components and .

The components depicted in are depicted only as exemplary for the clarity of the description and are not limiting on the illustrative embodiments. A particular implementation may organize the components differently than shown may combine subdivide or augment the depicted components without departing from the scope or spirit of the illustrative embodiments.

With reference to this figure depicts a block diagram of a system for providing information to facilitate selection of a telecommunication network in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Data network may be implemented using data network in . Server may be implemented using server in .

Server is a data processing system that includes database that includes information for facilitating selection of a telecommunication network as described above. Database may be implemented using database in . Server may include components and in within database or outside of database but included in or accessible to server .

Furthermore server may be a single data processing system or may be distributed across several data processing systems capable of interacting with each other. In a distributed data processing system serving as server the various components described below may be located in different data processing systems. However the behavior and functions of these components may be unaffected by the single data processing system or distributed data processing system implementation of server . Server is described using a single data processing system illustration for the clarity of the description and is not intended to be limiting on the illustrative embodiments.

As an example database may include information about several called numbers and their corresponding types of networks on which those called numbers are supported. A called number may be supported on PSTN. A corresponding information entry in database may provide that called number and network information corresponding to the called number such as an indication corresponding to that called number to show that the type of network supporting that called number is PSTN.

Alternatively the network information may include information of a local switch or access point instead of or in addition to the type of network indication. The network information may be used by the calling communication device to initiate communication with the switch or the access point. As described above network information may include speed of the network authentication requirements of a network a network node address with or without identifying the type of the network and any other information about a network that is useful in communicating with communication devices supported on that network.

Server further includes data communication component . Data communication component may be implemented using data communication component in . Data communication component provides server the ability to exchange data with other systems and devices using data network . A component of server may use data communication component for similar purposes.

Server may further include search component . Search component provides server the ability to request and receive data from other sources. Server may request and receive data such as called numbers and their corresponding types of networks from other sources. Other sources of this type of data may be the carrier that provides telephone service to a called number a database of marketing information or other sources of similar information.

The data may include other pieces of information as well. For example a second type of network may be provided together with a date or time when the first type of network becomes inactive and the second type of network becomes active. For example a data network may have a scheduled maintenance planned on a certain date and time when the data network may become inactive. As another example a user may have planned a switchover from PSTN to VOIP services on a certain date when the PSTN network for that user s called number may become inactive. As another example a corporate phone system on PSTN may go off line after business hours and switch to VOIP services over a data network that may be active 24 hours a day.

As another example a called number may accept both voice and fax communications. For such a called number two types of networks may be provided in the data along with qualifiers for each type of network. According to this example the data may contain the called number a first type of network such as VOIP with a qualifier voice or equivalent to indicate that VOIP is to be used for voice communication with that called number. The data may also include a second type of network such as PSTN with a qualifier fax to indicate that PSTN is to be used for fax communication with that called number. These examples are not intended to be limiting on the illustrative embodiments. Many other pieces of information will be conceivable from these examples and may be included in the data requested received processed and stored in server or its various components.

Referencing search component again search component may include a source list request construction component and other implementation specific components. Source list is a list of sources of data such as the exemplary data described above with which server may interact for requesting and receiving data. A source may proactively send data to server without server having to request data from that source. Furthermore a source need not be in source list in order to send data to server .

A source in source list may specify a particular format or contents of the requests directed towards that source. Some request specifications may be common between several sources and it is possible to have a unique request format for each source in source list . Request construction component constructs a request for data from a source in source list depending on a request specification for that source. Request specifications may be stored in source list request construction component or another repository such as a database an extensible markup language XML document a flat file or other structure suitable for the purpose.

Data loading and updating component loads or updates the data into database . For example when a source provides data to server data loading and updating component may process that data such as converting to a format acceptable to database . Data loading and updating component may then load the processed data if the data does not exist in database or update existing data such as data in in database using the new data.

Data administration component facilitates the administration of data in database . For example a database administrator may be able to reorganize reconcile or manipulate the data in database using data administration component .

Carrier system is an example of a source of data as described above. Carrier system may be one or more systems used by a carrier providing the telephone service to a called number. Carrier system may include other systems such as order management system and provisioning system . The data provided by carrier system to server may reside in order management system provisioning system or another system accessible to carrier system .

Carrier system is another example of a source of data as described above. Carrier system may be similar to carrier system and may include one or more systems used by a carrier providing the telephone service to a called number. For example if carrier system represents the systems of a VOIP service provider carrier system may include other systems such as order management system provisioning system and gateway . The data provided by carrier system to server may reside in order management system provisioning system and gateway or another system accessible to carrier system .

Database is another example of a source of data as described above. For example database may be a marketing database used for marketing VOIP services to PSTN telephone users. As another example database may be a sales database used for selling additional services to users of some PSTN services.

Carrier systems and and database are described only as exemplary and are not intended to be limiting on the illustrative embodiments. Any source that can provide data exemplarity described above may be used in place of any of carrier systems and and database without departing from the scope or spirit of the illustrative embodiments.

In certain implementations server may be a part of a carrier system such as carrier system . In such an implementation the carrier in control of the carrier system including server may choose to provide the services of server to only the carrier s customers or any customer regardless of who provides services to that customer. In another implementation server may be operated by an entity that is not a carrier. Such an entity may choose to provide the services of server to only a particular carrier s customers any customer regardless of who provides services to that customer customers having specific communication devices such as those manufactured by a specific manufacturer or customers with other commonalties.

With reference to this figure depicts a flowchart of a process of responding to a request from a network selection application in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Process may be implemented using server in .

Process begins by receiving a query and any optional authenticating information such as those sent from network selection application in step . A database such as database in may perform authentication of the requesting device or user and such authentication may be optional in some implementations of process . If authentication is performed and authenticating information is received in step process determines if the requesting user and or device have been authenticated step . If the user and or the device have been authenticated Yes path of step the process searches the database using the phone number supplied in the query step . The process may search a database such as databases in using the database s data such as data in for performing step .

Based on the result of the search performed in step the process constructs a response to the query received in step step . The process then sends the response to the requesting user and or device that sent the query received in step step . The process ends thereafter.

Returning to step a requesting user and or device may fail authentication. If the requesting user and or device are not authenticated No path of step the process ends.

With reference to this figure depicts a flowchart of a process of receiving data that facilitates selection of telecommunication networks in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Process may be implemented using server in .

Process may begin in at least two manners or a combination of the two manners. In a first manner process begins by receiving data from a source step . The received data may be as described in the description of above. A source may be as described in the description of above.

In an alternate manner process may begin by determining if the process should get or update data step . The determination whether to get or update data is a determination of whether to get new data get new data to update old data or a combination thereof.

If the process determines not to get or update data No path of step the process checks whether to get or update data periodically or according to a rule step . As an example step may check the determination of step again periodically such as by the expiration of a timer or at a set frequency. As another example step may check the determination of step again based on a rule such as when an event occurs. An example of an event may be an error condition in the database a manual trigger for an update or other events according to a specific implementation. Rules may be created for step and other operations such as operations in server in . An engine for creating executing and managing those rules may be a part of server in .

Returning to step if the process determines that data should be got or updated Yes path of step the process selects a source step . The process may select one or more sources in step .

The process constructs a request for data for each source selected in step step . The request may be constructed using request specification for each source as described above. The process then sends the request to the source step . The process receives a response to the request of step step . The process may receive one or more responses corresponding to a request. Furthermore a response may include the requested data may be followed by subsequent a response that includes the requested data or may not include any data at all such as in the case when no data is available at the source or when the source refuses the request.

If data is received in the response received in step the process processes the data step . As an example the processing may alter the format of the data according to the specifications of the database such as database in . As another example the processing may combine several pieces of the received data among themselves or with other pieces of data such as pre existing data. Any processing of the received data according to a particular implementation of the illustrative embodiments may be performed in step without departing from the scope or spirit of the illustrative embodiments.

The process then updates the database with the processed data of step step . The process ends thereafter. The updating the database in step may include adding new data to the database updating old data in the database with new data or a combination thereof.

Note that the steps of processes and are selected and described only for clarity of the description and are not limiting on the illustrative embodiments. Depicted steps may be combined further divided augmented to deleted or modified in particular implementations.

Furthermore the various illustrative embodiments are described using called number for selecting a network only for the clarity of the description. Called numbers are used only as exemplary and are not limiting on the illustrative embodiments. Any called identifier as described above may be used in place of a called number in the manner described in an implementation of the illustrative embodiments.

Thus in the illustrative embodiments described above a computer implemented method apparatus and computer program product provide for facilitating the selection of a telecommunication network. The illustrative embodiments describe an improved telecommunication system where a server based process and information may facilitate selecting one of many accessible networks for connecting a call. The server based process and information may facilitate selecting one of many accessible networks in a communication device used for making the call.

In one embodiment the selection of the network is based on learning from the server based process and information the network on which a called number is supported. Selecting at the caller communication device for connecting a call a network that supports the called number may avoid using network based gateways and data processing that is presently required for connecting calls to and from dissimilar networks. Thus connecting a call using a network that is common to both the calling number and the called number using the illustrative embodiments may be more efficient cheaper and easier than connecting a call that originates on one type of network and terminates on another type of network.

In one embodiment of the server such as server in the server may include a cache in addition to the database. The cache may be used for storing frequently used information. For example information about a called number whose associated type of network is frequently requested may be stored in a cache to expedite the response to a subsequent request for that information. In such an embodiment a rule may be executed by the rules based engine described above that prompts the server to check whether the information about the called number in a request is available in the cache before the information in the database is searched.

In another embodiment the server such as server in may receive requests from a calling communication device where the request is for multiple types of networks that may be associated with a called identifier. A calling communication device may send this type of request for a number of reasons. For example a calling communication device and the network selection application therein may send such a request for updating its local database. As another example a calling communication device and the network selection application therein may send such a request for learning all the various networks that service a called identifier in order to make several telecommunication calls of different types such as a voice call a fax call a data call or a video call. Each type of telecommunication call exemplified above as well as other types of calls is a type of telecommunication use. Many other types of telecommunication uses are conceivable from the above description.

In another embodiment the server may receive requests from a calling communication device where the request is for multiple types of networks that may be associated with several called identifiers. A calling communication device may send this type of request for a number of reasons. For example a calling communication device and the network selection application therein may send such a request for updating its local database. As another example a calling communication device and the network selection application therein may send such a request for temporarily caching the requested information for use in a series of calls that are planned or scheduled from the calling communication device. Many other uses are conceivable from the above description of these types of requests.

The illustrative embodiments can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. Furthermore the illustrative embodiments can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any tangible apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

Further a computer storage medium may contain or store a computer readable program code such that when the computer readable program code is executed on a computer the execution of this computer readable program code causes the computer to transmit another computer readable program code over a communication link. This communication link may use a medium that is for example without limitation physical or wireless.

The above description has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the illustrative embodiments in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art.

