---

title: Automatic discovery of wireless communication settings
abstract: A method of discovering connection specific settings from a mobile unit for a telecommunications connection at a navigation device is disclosed herein. In one example embodiment, the method may include establishing a wireless connection between the mobile unit and the navigation device to retrieve preliminary information from the mobile device, querying of a plurality of entries in a database within the navigation device based on the preliminary information, attempting to establish the telecommunications connection using the queried entries, and storing the entry resulting in a successful establishment of the telecommunications connection as the connection specific settings for the mobile unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08670727&OS=08670727&RS=08670727
owner: TomTom International B.V.
number: 08670727
owner_city: Amsterdam
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20070302
---
The following applications are being filed concurrently with the present applications. The entire contents of each of the following applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR STORING AND UTILIZING A LAST DOCKED LOCATION application Ser. No. 11 712 573 filed on even date herewith A METHOD AND DEVICE FOR UTILIZING SELECTABLE LOCATION MARKER FOR RELATIONAL DISPLAY OF POINT OF INTEREST ENTRIES application Ser. No. 11 712 572 filed on even date herewith A METHOD AND DEVICE FOR MAP SWITCHING application Ser. No. 11 712 578 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR CONVEYING INFORMATION RELATIONSHIPS application Ser. No. 11 712 563 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD OF UPDATING INFORMATION ON A NAVIGATION DEVICE application Ser. No. 11 712 571 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE SERVER AND METHOD FOR COMMUNICATING THEREBETWEEN application Ser. No. 11 712 603 filed on even date herewith A METHOD AND DEVICE FOR PROVIDING PREFERENCES DURING ROUTE TRAVEL CALCULATION ON A NAVIGATION DEVICE application Ser. No. 11 712 562 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD OF ACTIVATING INFORMATION ON A NAVIGATION DEVICE application Ser. No. 11 712 565 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD OF IMPLEMENTING AUDIO FEATURES IN A NAVIGATION DEVICE application Ser. No. 12 736 557 filed on even date herewith METHODS OF CUSTOMIZING NAVIGATION SYSTEMS application Ser. No. 11 713 089 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR SEQUENTIAL MAP DISPLAY application Ser. No. 11 712 561 filed on even date herewith.

The present application hereby claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 on each of Great Britain Patent Application numbers 0604709.6 filed Mar. 8 2006 0604708.8 filed Mar. 8 2006 0604710.4 filed Mar. 8 2006 0604704.7 filed Mar. 8 2006 and 0604706.2 filed Mar. 8 2006 the entire contents of each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present application generally relates to telecommunications and navigation devices. For example the present application may relate to discovery of wireless communication settings of a telecommunications network on a navigation device.

Global Positioning System GPS equipped navigation devices are becoming more common. Generally such navigation devices may provide a user with the ability to locate their current geographic position based on communication with multiple satellites. A user may wish to mount a navigation device into an automobile onto a motorcycle or on some other form of personal transportation such that their current position may be available while in transit to a desired geographical location. Navigation devices may be relatively simple to use while driving or while walking and may have familiar touch screen interfaces which enhance user interaction with the devices. However navigation devices may lack some features users have become accustomed to in other areas of technology.

For example some users may have become accustomed to feature rich information available through direct internet connections and the ease of use of some internet connections. To increase the mobility of internet resources some users may have a mobile unit such as a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM equipped cellular telephone which may provide internet access if service availability permits. Additional cellular telephones may have similar internet services such as a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA equipped cellular telephones with wireless internet services.

However cellular telephones may have display screens relatively small when compared to computers used for typical internet connections and furthermore some cellular telephones may lack display processing capabilities to perform heavy graphical traversal of the internet as some users may have become accustomed to. Similarly wireless routers used for wireless internet access lack screens at all and require a laptop or other computing device for internet traversal.

Furthermore internet traversal on cellular telephones may be shadowed by tiny keypads unfamiliar interfaces and easily exhausted battery life. Similarly drivers and passengers in a car for instance may need to concentrate on road conditions and driving safely rather than fumble with a cellular telephone for internet access and information available from the internet which may be required while driving e.g. weather conditions restaurant locations hotel information etc .

If compared to a navigation device a device generally adapted for simplicity of use while driving cellular telephones and wireless routers may be relatively complicated to use. Therefore it may be desirable to have more mobile internet resources with increased usability in automobiles and other forms of transportation. Furthermore the small size of cellular telephones may increase difficulty in using mobile internet connections while driving and walking. Therefore according to example embodiments methods for automatically discovering connection information such that mobile telecommunications connections may be applied to navigation devices are disclosed.

According to example embodiments a method of discovering connection specific settings of a mobile unit for a telecommunications connection at a navigation device is disclosed. The method may include establishing a wireless connection between the mobile unit and the navigation device to retrieve preliminary information from the mobile unit querying a plurality of entries in a database within the navigation device based on the preliminary information attempting to establish the telecommunications connection using the queried entries and storing the one of the plurality of entries resulting in a successful establishment of the telecommunications connection as the connection specific settings for the mobile unit.

According to example embodiments a method of discovering connection specific settings of a mobile unit for a telecommunications connection at a navigation device is disclosed. The method may include sending preliminary information from the mobile unit to the navigation device on a wireless connection the preliminary information to be used to query a database in the navigation device containing connection specific settings for a plurality of mobile units receiving connection specific settings for the mobile unit from the navigation device and establishing the telecommunications connection using the received connection specific settings.

According to example embodiments a navigation device may include a database to store a plurality of entries including connection specific settings for a plurality of mobile units the connection specific settings enabling a telecommunications connection for the navigation device through a mobile unit a memory to store connection specific settings for at least one mobile unit of the plurality of mobile units and a processor to query a plurality of entries of the database to retrieve the connection specific settings for the at least one mobile unit based on preliminary information received from the mobile unit.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the present invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

In describing example embodiments illustrated in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the disclosure of this patent specification is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner.

Referencing the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views example embodiments of the present patent application are hereafter described.

Formerly known as NAVSTAR GPS incorporates a plurality of satellites which work with the earth in very precise orbits. Based on these precise orbits GPS satellites may relay their location to any number of receiving units.

The GPS system is implemented when a device specially equipped to receive GPS data begins scanning radio frequencies for GPS satellite signals. Upon receiving a radio signal from a GPS satellite the device determines the precise location of that satellite via one of a plurality of different conventional methods. The device will continue scanning in most instances for signals until it has acquired at least three different satellite signals noting that position is not normally but can be determined with only two signals using other triangulation techniques . Implementing geometric triangulation the receiver utilizes the three known positions to determine its own two dimensional position relative to the satellites. This can be done in a known manner. Additionally acquiring a fourth satellite signal will allow the receiving device to calculate its three dimensional position by a substantially similar geometrical calculation in a known manner. The position and velocity data can be updated in real time on a continuous basis by an unlimited number of users.

As shown in the GPS system is denoted generally by reference numeral . A plurality of satellites are in orbit about the earth . The orbit of each satellite is not necessarily synchronous with the orbits of other satellites and in fact is likely asynchronous. A GPS receiver usable in embodiments of navigation devices of the present application is shown receiving spread spectrum GPS satellite signals from the various satellites .

The spread spectrum signals continuously transmitted from each satellite utilize a highly accurate frequency standard accomplished with an extremely accurate atomic clock. Each satellite as part of its data signal transmission transmits a data stream indicative of that particular satellite . It is appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art that the GPS receiver device generally acquires spread spectrum GPS satellite signals from at least three satellites for the GPS receiver device to calculate its two dimensional position by triangulation. Acquisition of an additional signal resulting in signals from a total of four satellites permits the GPS receiver device to calculate its three dimensional position in a known manner.

The navigation device is located within a housing not shown . The housing includes a processor connected to an input device and a display screen . The input device can include a keyboard device voice input device and or any other known input device utilized to input information and the display screen can include any type of display screen such as an LCD display for example. In at least one embodiment of the present application the input device and display screen are integrated into an integrated input and display device including a touchpad or touch screen input wherein a user need only touch a portion of the display screen to select one of a plurality of display choices or to activate one of a plurality of virtual buttons.

In addition other types of output devices can also include including but not limited to an audible output device. As output device can produce audible information to a user of the navigation device it is equally understood that input device can also include a microphone and software for receiving input voice commands as well.

In the navigation device processor is operatively connected to and set to receive input information from input device via a connection and operatively connected to at least one of display screen and output device via output connections to output information thereto. Further the processor is operatively connected to memory via connection and is further adapted to receive send information from to input output I O ports via connection wherein the I O port is connectable to an I O device external to the navigation device . The external I O device may include but is not limited to an external listening device such as an earpiece for example. The connection to I O device can further be a wired or wireless connection to any other external device such as a car stereo unit for hands free operation and or for voice activated operation for example for connection to an ear piece or head phones and or for connection to a mobile phone for example wherein the mobile phone connection may be used to establish a data connection between the navigation device and the internet or any other network for example and or to establish a connection to a server via the internet or some other network for example. The connection may be embodied as a BLUETOOTH connection a serial connection or any suitable connection for interfacing to an external device.

Further it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the electronic components shown in are powered by power sources not shown in a conventional manner. As will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art different configurations of the components shown in are considered within the scope of the present application. For example in one embodiment the components shown in may be in communication with one another via wired and or wireless connections and the like. Thus the scope of the navigation device of the present application includes a portable or handheld navigation device .

In addition the portable or handheld navigation device of can be connected or docked in a known manner to a motorized vehicle such as a car or boat for example. Such a navigation device is then removable from the docked location for portable or handheld navigation use for example while walking or sitting.

The server includes in addition to other components which may not be illustrated a processor operatively connected to a memory and further operatively connected via a wired or wireless connection to a mass data storage device . The processor is further operatively connected to transmitter and receiver to transmit and send information to and from navigation device via communications channel . The signals sent and received may include data communication and or other propagated signals. The transmitter and receiver may be selected or designed according to the communications requirement and communication technology used in the communication design for the navigation system . Further it should be noted that the functions of transmitter and receiver may be combined into a signal transceiver.

Server is further connected to or includes a mass storage device noting that the mass storage device may be coupled to the server via communication link . The mass storage device contains a store of navigation data and map information and can again be a separate device from the server or can be incorporated into the server .

The navigation device is adapted to communicate with the server through communications channel and includes processor memory etc. as previously described with regard to as well as transmitter and receiver to send and receive signals and or data through the communications channel noting that these devices can further be used to communicate with devices other than server . Further the transmitter and receiver are selected or designed according to communication requirements and communication technology used in the communication design for the navigation device and the functions of the transmitter and receiver may be combined into a single transceiver.

Software stored in server memory provides instructions for the processor and allows the server to provide services to the navigation device . One service provided by the server involves processing requests from the navigation device and transmitting navigation data from the mass data storage to the navigation device . According to at least one embodiment of the present application another service provided by the server includes processing the navigation data using various algorithms for a desired application and sending the results of these calculations to the navigation device .

The communication channel generically represents the propagating medium or path that connects the navigation device and the server . According to at least one embodiment of the present application both the server and navigation device include a transmitter for transmitting data through the communication channel and a receiver for receiving data that has been transmitted through the communication channel.

The communication channel is not limited to a particular communication technology. Additionally the communication channel is not limited to a single communication technology that is the channel may include several communication links that use a variety of technology. For example according to at least one embodiment the communication channel can be adapted to provide a path for electrical optical and or electromagnetic communications etc. As such the communication channel includes but is not limited to one or a combination of the following electric circuits electrical conductors such as wires and coaxial cables fiber optic cables converters radio frequency rf waves the atmosphere empty space etc. Furthermore according to at least one various embodiment the communication channel can include intermediate devices such as routers repeaters buffers transmitters and receivers for example.

In at least one embodiment of the present application for example the communication channel includes telephone and computer networks. Furthermore in at least one embodiment the communication channel may be capable of accommodating wireless communication such as radio frequency microwave frequency infrared communication etc. Additionally according to at least one embodiment the communication channel can accommodate satellite communication.

The communication signals transmitted through the communication channel include but are not limited to signals as may be required or desired for given communication technology. For example the signals may be adapted to be used in cellular communication technology such as Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM etc. Both digital and analogue signals can be transmitted through the communication channel . According to at least one embodiment these signals may be modulated encrypted and or compressed signals as may be desirable for the communication technology.

The mass data storage includes sufficient memory for the desired navigation applications. Examples of the mass data storage may include magnetic data storage media such as hard drives for example optical storage media such as CD Roms for example charged data storage media such as flash memory for example molecular memory etc.

According to at least one embodiment of the present application the server includes a remote server accessible by the navigation device via a wireless channel. According to at least one other embodiment of the application the server may include a network server located on a local area network LAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN etc.

According to at least one embodiment of the present application the server may include a personal computer such as a desktop or laptop computer and the communication channel may be a cable connected between the personal computer and the navigation device . Alternatively a personal computer may be connected between the navigation device and the server to establish an internet connection between the server and the navigation device . Alternatively a mobile telephone or other handheld device may establish a wireless connection to the internet for connecting the navigation device to the server via the internet.

The navigation device may be provided with information from the server via information downloads which may be periodically updated upon a user connecting navigation device to the server and or may be more dynamic upon a more constant or frequent connection being made between the server and navigation device via a wireless mobile connection device and data connection for example. For many dynamic calculations the processor in the server may be used to handle the bulk of the processing needs however processor of navigation device can also handle much processing and calculation oftentimes independent of a connection to a server .

The mass storage device connected to the server can include volumes more cartographic and route data than that which is able to be maintained on the navigation device itself including maps etc. The server may process for example the majority of the devices of a navigation device which travel along the route using a set of processing algorithms. Further the cartographic and route data stored in memory can operate on signals e.g. GPS signals originally received by the navigation device .

For example the navigation device may be used in a larger navigation system such that a user may interact with or utilize additional features not normally available to a stand alone navigation device.

With further regards to the communication channel it will be understood that the communication channel may enable a mobile internet connection for example an Access Point Network enabled mobile internet connection through a service provider of a mobile unit e.g. cellular telephone . Other examples of mobile internet connections may include dial up networking DUN wireless application protocol WAP etc. However it will be noted that example embodiments should not be limited to just these examples as example embodiments are applicable to any mobile internet connection available through mobile units such as for example personal digital assistants PDA wireless routers mobile telephones etc.

For example a mobile internet connection may need a plurality of settings for enabling the connection. Generally the plurality of settings vary by service provider service provider s country and or geographic location mobile phone model mobile phone manufacturer and other applicable settings. Furthermore a particular model of mobile device may include a plurality of different mobile internet connections types such as WAP GPRS WAP APN DUN and more. Therefore the particular mobile unit model may include numerous settings for each type of connection available. As such a user of the particular model may need to understand each type of connection and or each setting relevant to the type of connection before a connection may be used. It will be appreciated that every mobile user may therefore not have the knowledge available to fully utilize a mobile device s connections.

With regards to the mobile unit particular settings for a type of mobile internet connection may be referenced by a connection identifier CID such that a user may access the connection. For example a CID for an APN connection may include a prefix e.g. 77 96 69 etc. which may be dialed to open an available connection type. The prefix may not be readily stored in a format accessible by the user and therefore the user may further have to locate a working prefix such that a connection may be established.

Navigation system may further include a computer and a server . A computer may include a serial communication port i.e. RS 232 serial port and or USB serial port such that the computer may communicate with navigation device . For example a computer may allow navigation device to retrieve information from the internet via a serial communication protocol between the navigation device and the computer . The computer may be in communication with the internet or alternatively may allow a stable internet connection though any available internet service provider.

The navigation system may further include a server connected to the internet. The server may include a mass storage and or data storage device such that a large amount of information may be retrieved from the server . For example the server may be substantially similar to the server illustrated in . Furthermore the computer may retrieve information from the server via the internet through any of available protocol i.e. TCP IP protocol FTP protocol or any suitable protocol . The computer may relay information retrieved from the server to the navigation device for storage on the navigation device . For example the computer may retrieve information regarding connection settings of the mobile unit from the server and may store this information on the navigation device . The connection settings may include information necessary to establish a mobile internet connection and may be stored in for example database of navigation device or memory of the navigation device.

Navigation system may further include a car stereo connected to the navigation device via communication link . For example the communication link may enable communication between the navigation device and the car stereo such that audio prompts and or audio information played from the navigation device may be heard through the car stereo . For example such audio information may include audio information from a phone call using mobile unit in hands free mode. Although navigation system depicts the computer the internet and the server in connection with the navigation device it will be understood that any or all of these components may be omitted without departing from the scope of example embodiments.

For example the navigation device may use the computer to retrieve connection specific settings from the server while connected to the computer . Thereafter the computer may sever the connection with the navigation device such that the navigation device may become portable and or may be used in a typical configuration in an automobile boat or other vehicle. Furthermore although the navigation device is depicted as being connected to the car stereo it will be understood that such a connection is optional and may be severed and or not used without departing from the scope of example embodiments. Moreover although the navigation device is depicted as being in communication with mobile unit it will be understood that communication may be severed at any time and or may be enabled via a different communication link with the mobile unit although not illustrated as such.

According to example embodiments a method of establishing a connection to a mobile unit s is disclosed. The connection may enable connection specific settings and or information regarding the mobile unit to be retrieved such that a mobile telecommunications connection may be established. For example the mobile telecommunications connection may be a mobile internet connection as described above.

The method of locating mobile units may include searching for mobile units using a wireless link. A wireless link may be a short distance BLUETOOTH connection or any suitable wireless link between the navigation device and the mobile unit i.e. IEEE 802.11a b g n WAN etc .

Subsequent to searching for mobile units or at substantially at the same time as searching for mobile units more than one mobile unit may be identified. If more than one mobile unit is identified using the wireless link a user of the navigation device may be prompted to select a preferred or desired unit from a list of the mobile units found. For example the navigation device may depict a graphical user interface GUI with a graphical list of available wireless units. The graphical list may depict several wireless units and may be touch sensitive for user input. In a touch sensitive user input interface the user may simply push a virtual button representing a preferred wireless unit such that the method may enable pairing with the preferred wireless unit.

Alternatively the user may input via a mouse or keyboard a preferred or desired mobile unit from the list of units displayed on the navigation device .

If more than one unit is not identified using the wireless link the navigation device may begin to pair with the only identified mobile unit via the wireless link. For example the navigation device may display a user interface screen with a pairing code. The pairing code may include a numeric identification code of the wireless link or a password such that the user of the navigation device may enter the numeric code into the mobile unit . Alternatively the mobile unit may display or prompt the numeric code or password such that the user may enter the numeric code into the navigation device . In at least one example embodiment the numeric code is a four 4 digit numeric code for a BLUETOOTH pairing. In other example embodiments the numeric code may be an entirely different number of digits characters or any other valid symbols depending upon the wireless link used.

Thereafter the navigation device using a known pairing method for the wireless link may pair with the mobile unit . Subsequent to pairing the navigation device may identify whether the paired mobile unit supports internet access and or additional features. For example the navigation device may prompt the user of the navigation device with a list of known features for the mobile unit or possible features for the mobile unit such that the user may select which feature to install on the navigation device . Subsequently an automatic connection set up method may be employed to extrapolate connect specific settings from the mobile unit . Alternatively a semi automatic method of establishing a connection may be used depending upon user interaction with the navigation device . For example the user may select a semi automatic connection method before an automatic connection setup method is enabled.

Similarly the user may simply be prompted to use an automatic connection set up method with a previously paired mobile unit without searching for new mobile units with wireless link. Subsequent to attempting the automatic connection set up method the paired mobile unit may be traversed for identification of additional features supported therein. For example the navigation device may handshake with the mobile unit to determine whether the mobile unit supports additional features including phone book access hands free access SMS access or other features of the mobile unit . Thereafter the additional features may be identified and stored in the navigation device based on the paired mobile unit. For example a list of features that are known as supported by the mobile unit may be saved as default settings for the paired mobile unit on the navigation device .

It should be noted however that as the mobile unit may be any device external to the navigation system that provides wireless services and is not limited to mobile phones or similar devices. Further the mobile unit may include additional features. For example the mobile unit may be a wireless router allowing a connection to the internet and may not include phone book access SMS access etc.

Hereinafter a more detailed description will be given with regards to additional features of example embodiments which may be supported by mobile units.

For example SMS access may include displaying a graphical representation of a SMS access system of the mobile unit on the navigation device . For example the graphical representation may include a listing of messages received on the mobile unit a listing of messages sent on the mobile unit and any other suitable information regarding SMS access. Therefore a user of the navigation device may select messages stored on the mobile unit such that they may be easily read using the navigation device . SMS access may further include composition of new messages to be sent with the mobile unit . For example the user of the navigation device may compose new messages using an input device on the navigation device e.g. touch screen keypad etc. and transmit the new messages using the mobile unit s SMS service. Similarly messages received on the mobile unit may be viewed on the navigation device and stored upon receipt. As such a user of the navigation device using an input device may select messages send messages and store messages using the navigation device . It will be appreciated that the selections may be performed using a touch interface. Therefore access and usability are enhanced.

For example phone book access may include displaying a graphical representation of a phone book stored on the mobile unit on the navigation device . Therefore the user may interact with the phone book seamlessly. Such interaction may further be enhanced by use of an input device or touch screen interface on the navigation device . For example phone book access on a mobile unit may include multiple phone book access methods provided by the mobile unit . Using the methods the navigation device may access a phone book s stored on the mobile unit . The navigation device may use all phone book access methods provided by the mobile unit or at least one to integrate phone book access. For example if one phone book access method fails the navigation device may attempt an alternative method. With regards to the graphical representation noted above it will be appreciated that a listing including icons or the like may be displayed on the navigation device . The user using any available input method may simply select a number displayed on the navigation device to place a call or send a data message. Similarly the user may simply select an end call or send message option to end the mobile call or send the data message. Therefore using phone book access a user may interact with the familiar interface provided by the navigation device while still having access to features on the mobile unit . Therefore according to example embodiments phone book access may include displaying a graphical representation of a phone book stored on the mobile unit on the navigation device such that a user of the navigation device may seamlessly interact with the phone book using the familiar interface of the navigation device .

Furthermore the additional features may include telephone number dialing access. The access to dialing may include allowing the navigation device to dial telephone numbers and establish a wireless call using the mobile unit . It will be appreciated that this access is enhanced by the navigation device as any of an input device or touch screen interface may be used to dial. This may be done in combination with hands free access or phone book access as described above.

For example hands free access includes at least one of receiving placing and ending wireless telephone calls using the navigation device . Hands free access may enable a user of the navigation device to make wireless calls with little or no interaction with the mobile unit thereby facilitating use while operating a vehicle or machinery. For example if an incoming call is detected by the mobile unit it may send an incoming call signal to the navigation device . The navigation device may display any of a call origination number i.e. telephone number call originates from name of caller i.e. retrieved using phone book access or caller ID service or a similar identifier to alert the user of the navigation device of the incoming call. The user may then simply select an option of whether to accept or refuse the incoming call. If the user accepts the incoming call the navigation device will facilitate hands free calling. If the user refuses the call the navigation device may simply terminate the call or silent a ringer or alert. Similarly a user of the navigation device may place a wireless telephone call using hands free access. For example the user may enter a telephone number to dial using an input device and select an option to place a call. Similarly the user may select numbers in combination with phone book access such that calls may be made. Therefore according example embodiments hands free access may include at least one of receiving placing and ending wireless telephone calls using the navigation device .

Additionally it will be appreciated that the above mentioned features may be used in combination with a plurality of features available on the navigation device . For example the navigation device may employ a voice recognition system such that numbers and or names may be spoken and thereby recognized by the mobile unit . This may enable complete hands free access through traversing the phone book based on the spoken name and commanding the navigation device to dial the associated number. Furthermore email text SMS or other messages may be dictated and sent in a similar manner using email or SMS features of the mobile unit .

Similarly additional features available on the mobile unit may be displayed graphically on the navigation device such that a touch screen interface may be used to access the features. A graphical representation may also be used to display a plurality of mobile units previously paired with or stored on the navigation device . In this manner access to even more features available from multiple mobile units is enhanced with the navigation device .

As such according to example embodiments the automatic connection setup method may retrieve connection settings and may identify additional features of a mobile unit s .

The connection settings retrieved from the automatic connection setup method and the additional features identified may be stored on the navigation device based on the identification of the mobile unit paired e.g. stored and associated with the paired mobile unit .

An embodiment of a method for establishing a telecommunications connection for a navigation device is further disclosed such that the features described above may be used in conjunction with the navigation device . For example the method may include retrieval of connection specific information or at least preliminary information such that the amount of information pertaining to a connection type necessary from a user is reduced. The method may be an automatic method or a semi automatic method or any combination thereof.

However it should be noted that the preliminary information should not be limited to the examples above. For example the preliminary information may include virtual private network VPN access numbers and PINs such that a VPN connection may be established. Furthermore the mobile unit may be a wireless router. Therefore the preliminary information may further include router specific settings which may be substantially different or similar to the examples listed above depending upon the protocols employed by the wireless router.

Upon retrieval of the preliminary information a database within the navigation device may be queried with the preliminary information. For example the database within the navigation device may be indexed based on the type and or quantity of preliminary information. The entries in the database may include indexes represented by service provider telephone number access codes or access prefixes. However it will be understood that any other indexing method may be used. For example the model number service provider and or country and geographic location of the mobile unit may be used as database entry indexes.

In querying the database with the preliminary information the automatic connection set up method may iterate through a plurality of settings and or indexes of the database such that a successful or useable index is found. For example as illustrated in the automatic connection set up method may iterate by attempting or utilizing subsequent settings in the database until a correct setting is found. For example the connection settings queried may be sent to the mobile unit over the wireless connection and or attempted using the mobile unit . If a correct setting is found the navigation device may store the settings as connection specific settings for the mobile unit . For example the mobile unit may prompt or alert the navigation device of a successful connection. Thereafter the stored settings may be used to enable a telecommunications connection through the mobile unit via the wireless connection to the navigation device .

Therefore according to example embodiments a method of discovering connection specific settings of a mobile unit for a telecommunications connection at a navigation device is disclosed. The method may include establishing a wireless connection between the mobile unit and the navigation device to retrieve preliminary information from the mobile unit querying a plurality of entries in a database within the navigation device based on the preliminary information attempting to establish the telecommunications connection using the queried entries and storing the entry resulting in a successful establishment of the telecommunications connection as the connection specific settings for the mobile unit .

Similarly a navigation device may process the above described method. Therefore according to example embodiments a navigation device may include a database to store a plurality of entries including connection specific settings for a plurality of mobile units the connection specific settings enabling a telecommunications connection for the navigation device through the mobile unit a memory to store connection specific settings for at least one mobile unit of the plurality of mobile units and a processor to query a plurality of entries of the database to retrieve the connection specific settings for the at least one mobile unit based on preliminary information received from the mobile unit .

Furthermore in addition to the features described above if a successful entry is not retrieved from the database a semi automatic connection set up method of an embodiment may be employed by the navigation device . Similarly if preliminary information is not retrieved from the mobile unit the semi automatic connection set up method may be employed as well.

Accordingly an embodiment of a semi automatic method is disclosed. The semi automatic method may be used in combination with the automatic method such that an unsuccessful query of the database results in an attempt of the semi automatic method. Alternatively a user may by pass the automatic method in preference to the semi automatic method. The semi automatic method is described below.

The user may enter any or all of connection settings available for the mobile unit . For example the user may enter APN access codes prefixes VPN access numbers and PINs router specific settings etc. Thereafter a connection may be attempted. For example the navigation device may attempt a connection using only the acquired information. Additionally the navigation device may determine a current geographical location of the mobile unit and the navigation device such that the navigation device may determine the country in which the mobile unit is located. Using the geographical location of the navigation device a service provider and or list of common prefixes and connection specific information may be determined. Such a determination may be enhanced through querying of the above disclosed database although not necessary for the semi automatic method. It should also be noted that a user may be prompted to verify a geographical location of the navigation device . For example if a user is traveling and is currently located in a country other than a country in which the service provider resides verification of the current country location may be beneficial.

For example the determination may include querying the database using the portions of information acquired and the current GPS location. Thereafter a list of known prefixes i.e. prefixes and settings stored in the database and or GPS location may be used to attempt a preliminary connection with the wireless unit.

Upon successful connection or upon successful retrieval of connection specific settings the navigation device may store the successful settings based on the identification of the paired mobile unit.

Subsequently the navigation device may request the user to upload the connection specific settings for the paired mobile unit such that the successful settings may be stored in a remote server . Because the successful settings may be stored in a remote server other users of similar models of mobile units may acquire connection specific settings relatively easily compared to conventional methods.

For example as an alternative to querying the local database within the navigation system as illustrated ion the remote server and or database may be queried with preliminary information such that the successful connection specific settings for the model of wireless unit may be employed by a plurality of users.

As described above a navigation device may store known settings for a list of supported devices in a local database. Using preliminary information retrieved from a mobile unit the local database may be traversed such that the known settings may be easily located for a paired or desired wireless unit. Through the automatic connection setup method a user having limited information and or limited technical aptitude regarding mobile unit wireless connection settings may be able to extrapolate feature rich information services from the mobile unit and exploit them on a navigation device . Furthermore mobile units providing additional features such as hands free calling may be made more easily accessible by an external device such as a navigation device .

Furthermore as described above with regards to a basic navigation system may include a remote server to store successful settings for a plurality of users using the connection set up methods disclosed herein. The connect specific settings for newly supported devices stored on server may be accessed by the internet using a computer or a supported mobile unit such that a navigation device may easily retrieve information regarding supported or newly supported mobile units. Thereafter a user of the navigation device may more easily connect a plurality of mobile units with limited information regarding connection specific settings.

Additional features of mobile units may include phonebook or contact information stored on the mobile unit SMS messaging services through a cellular telephone connection SIM card or service provider information stored on the mobile unit and other features which may be otherwise unknown to a user of the mobile unit . Through successful connection via the wireless link and connection specific settings retrieved via any of the automatic set up connection method or semi automatic set up connection method a user may be able to exploit extra features from typically small screened mobile units without sufficient technological ability. After successful connection to a mobile unit a user may no longer need to use the limited human machine interface HMI i.e. small screen small keypad etc. of the mobile unit as the navigation device may serve for easier operation of the mobile unit features. For example the user may access the phonebook stored on the mobile unit through a graphical user interface on the navigation device . Similarly the user of the mobile unit may access SMS messaging through the user interface enabled by the mobile unit connection. Such SMS messaging may include services including e mail or short messaging using the relatively larger screen of the navigation device. Similarly voice prompts of the navigation device may be used to traverse phone features enabling full hands free use of the mobile unit . Such hands free use may enable safer driving while using feature of mobile units and may further enable a user of the navigation device to maintain concentration on other tasks such as driving.

Similarly example embodiments disclosed herein may be combined and all such combinations are intended to be included within the scope of this disclosure. For example SMS access on a mobile unit may be combined with the semi automatic discovery method noted above such that connection specific settings are sent via SMS messaging directly to the user of the mobile unit . In this manner the ease of use of the semi automatic method is enhanced. The settings may be sent through SMS by a support service which may be called using phone book and or hands free access. Similarly the user may access an internet connection with one mobile unit and request connection specific settings for a different mobile unit on a support service website. Thereafter the connection specific settings may be sent to the navigation device using one internet connection stored on the navigation device and subsequently used with the automatic or semi automatic method for settings discovery.

Furthermore the methods of at least one embodiment expressed above may be implemented as a computer data signal embodied in the carrier wave or propagated signal that represents a sequence of instructions which when executed by a processor such as processor of server and or processor of navigation device for example causes the processor to perform a respective method. In at least one other embodiment at least one method provided above may be implemented above as a set of instructions contained on a computer readable or computer accessible medium such as one of the memory devices previously described for example to perform the respective method when executed by a processor or other computer device. In varying embodiments the medium may be a magnetic medium electronic medium optical medium etc.

Even further any of the aforementioned methods may be embodied in the form of a program. The program may be stored on a computer readable media and is adapted to perform any one of the aforementioned methods when run on a computer device a device including a processor . Thus the storage medium or computer readable medium is adapted to store information and is adapted to interact with a data processing facility or computer device to perform the method of any of the above mentioned embodiments.

The storage medium may be a built in medium installed inside a computer device main body or a removable medium arranged so that it can be separated from the computer device main body. Examples of the built in medium include but are not limited to rewriteable non volatile memories such as ROMs and flash memories and hard disks. Examples of the removable medium include but are not limited to optical storage media such as CD ROMs and DVDs magneto optical storage media such as MOs magnetism storage media including but not limited to Floppy Disks cassette tapes and removable hard disks media with a built in rewriteable non volatile memory including but not limited to memory cards and media with a built in ROM including but not limited to ROM cassettes etc. Furthermore various information regarding stored images for example property information may be stored in any other form or it may be provided in other ways.

As one of ordinary skill in the art will understand upon reading the disclosure the electronic components of the navigation device and or the components of the server can be embodied as computer hardware circuitry or as a computer readable program or as a combination of both.

The system and method of embodiments of the present application include software operative on the processor to perform at least one of the methods according to the teachings of the present application. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand upon reading and comprehending this disclosure the manner in which a software program can be launched from a computer readable medium in a computer based system to execute the functions found in the software program. One of ordinary skill in the art will further understand the various programming languages which may be employed to create a software program designed to implement and perform at least one of the methods of the present application.

The programs can be structured in an object orientation using an object oriented language including but not limited to JAVA Smalltalk C etc. and the programs can be structured in a procedural orientation using a procedural language including but not limited to COBAL C etc. The software components can communicate in any number of ways that are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art including but not limited to by application of program interfaces API interprocess communication techniques including but not limited to report procedure call RPC common object request broker architecture CORBA Component Object Model COM Distributed Component Object Model DCOM Distributed System Object Model DSOM and Remote Method Invocation RMI . However as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the present application disclosure the teachings of the present application are not limited to a particular programming language or environment.

The above systems devices and methods have been described by way of example and not by way of limitation with respect to improving accuracy processor speed and ease of user interaction etc. with a navigation device .

Further elements and or features of different example embodiments may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of this disclosure and appended claims.

Still further any one of the above described and other example features of the present invention may be embodied in the form of an apparatus method system computer program and computer program product. For example of the aforementioned methods may be embodied in the form of a system or device including but not limited to any of the structure for performing the methodology illustrated in the drawings.

Example embodiments being thus described it will be obvious that the same may be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the present invention and all such modifications as would be obvious to one skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the following claims.

